We all know Bill Clinton is a sexual predator.
The big question now is, how much Hillary knew about his disgusting sexual trysts with his good buddy, Jeffrey Epstein who apparently had a thing for underage girls?
Bill Clinton spent enough time aboard disgraced Wall Street mogul Jeffrey Epstein s Lolita Express airplane that he should be eligible for frequent flyer miles, according to a shocking new report that reveals how often the former U.S. president road along with with the convicted sex offender.Flight logs reviewed by Fox News show Clinton took 26 trips aboard Epstein s Boeing 727 jet, more than double the 11 flights previously known.
Epstein s jet was reportedly set up with a bed where guests had group sex with young girls.
One of them, Virginia Giuffre, has claimed she was lured into joining Epstein s harem when she was just 15 years old and was then known as Virginia Roberts.
The former teen prostitute has said she was used as a sex slave.
Roberts, 32, has claimed she saw Clinton in 2002 on an Epstein junket to St. Thomas in the U.S. Virgin Islands.But according to Fox, flight logs don t show the former president aboard a flight headed there.
St. Thomas has a landing strip long enough to accommodate the jet.
The logs do show the former president jetting to such exotic locales as Brunei, Norway, Russia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, the Azores, Africa, Belgium, China, New York, and Belgium all on Epstein s plane.
Traveling with Epstein was New York socialite Ghislaine Maxwell, whom Roberts has accused of pimping her out.
If nothing else, Clinton brought protection.
Flight logs filed with the Federal Aviation Administration show Clinton brought as many as 10 U.S. Secret Service agents along with him on some trips.
But a journey to Asia in 2002 didn t list any Secret Service protection.
As a former president, Clinton still gets a taxpayer-funded security detail for life.
The cable network reported that Clinton would have been required to file an official form to leave his protective forces behind, although the Secret Service hasn t responded to formal document requests.
Epstein pleaded guilty to soliciting a minor for prostitution in 2008, and served just 18 months in jail for the offense despite outrage from victims advocates.The Palm Beach, Florida police and the FBI both investigated charges that Epstein consorted with underage girls used for prostitution.
Court documents show that police found a clear indication that Epstein s staff was frequently working to schedule multiple young girls between the ages of 12 and 16 years old literally every day, often two or three times per day.
One victim said under oath that Epstein molested her at least 50 times, beginning when she was 13.
She said she and other girls were lured to Epstein s home with promises of hundreds of dollars for modeling or for massaging him.Read more: Daily Mail