John Oliver had a field day mocking Donald Trump on Sunday night for repeatedly shooting himself in the foot and it was an absolute laugh riot.The HBO host of Last Week Tonight began by talking about how Hillary Clinton released her tax returns and has had to answer questions about Clinton Foundation connections to the State Department, which could have helped the Republican nominee if he hadn t utterly screwed himself and his own campaign by running his mouth.
She was eclipsed by the imploding star that is Donald Trump, the owner of what you might describe as a resting rich face, Oliver said.You see, Trump tried to briefly act sane by reading his speech material off of a teleprompter, which the right-wing hypocritically whines about President Obama doing, so he can t go off script and say stupid things.
This was the 53rd consecutive week he was going to put his campaign back on track, Oliver quipped.But no sooner had Trump started doing that when he started calling for Second Amendment people to do something about Hillary, claimed the the election is rigged, and declared that President Obama literally founded ISIS.
Wow, Oliver remarked.
Now clearly what he just said is absolutely absurd, but even when people try to help him reframe it, he doubled down.
Indeed, during an interview with right-wing radio host Hugh Hewitt he doubled down on his accusation despite being given an opportunity to walk his statements back, only to then claim that he was merely being sarcastic when he repeatedly called the sitting President of the United States the leader of a terrorist organization.
He s so insistent!
Oliver continued.
He s like the guy drowning but waving off a lifeboat saying, Get out of here, I m very buoyant.
I m the most buoyant.
Everybody talks about my buoyancy.
I m a tremendous floater.
And yes, sarcasm is a bullshit excuse.
It s the douchebag s apology.
After incredulously noting that Trump walked back his bullshit excuse, Oliver then took on Trump s dangerous charge that Hillary will only win the election because it is rigged.
What is really worth taking note of there, and is worth thinking about, is that he s suggesting the election may be stolen by his opponent, and that s actually dangerous.
He is priming his supporters to question the result when he loses Pennsylvania, as polls indicate he will, and as all Republican presidential candidates have since 1988.
In fact, Trump actually urged police officers who support him to patrol polling places to make sure voters don t vote multiple times.
In short, Trump supporters are primed to intimidate minority voters on Election Day, because as we all know, conservatives believe minority voters cheat the system.
But Oliver pointed out how Americans will know if Trump somehow wins the election.
In a way, we are all Trump Election Day observers.
Because if you look out of your window in November and see the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse you ll know, oh shit, they just called Florida!
Oliver then explained that his team signed up as an election observer on Trump s website to see what would happen and they got an email declaring that we are going to do everything we are legally allowed to do to stop crooked Hillary from rigging this election.
And that prompted Oliver to question if Trump knows what is legal and what is not since his own lawyer once claimed that spousal rape isn t real.
Plus, again, Trump suggested that gun nuts assassinate Hillary Clinton.Here s the video via VidMe.Donald Trump is a con man who is trying to become the most powerful person on the face of the planet.
He is so good at lying to his supporters that he has even told them to their faces that he is lying to them and they were too dumb to notice.Featured image via screenshot