A Bernie Sanders supporter s car was vandalized by Andy Hallinan.
The man put two stickers over top of the woman s Bernie Sanders stickers.
The stickers say WARNING: This car is an MFV.
The letters MFV are short for Muslim Free Zone.
The owner of the car saw photos of her vandalized car online.
Hallinan posted two photos of himself before and after he put the stickers on the car, then posted them to them his businesses Facebook page.
Hallinan is the owner of Florida Gun Supply, a gun store in Inverness, Florida.
He has previously made headlines when he posted a video on his store s Facebook page, where he declared that the gun shop is a Muslim-free zone.
The Council on American-Islamic Relations called on the Department of Justice to investigate the matter, claiming that banning Muslims from his store is a violation of federal law.The owner of the car wrote a post on Facebook where she said: I was at a Barnes and Noble today in Millbury Ma.
I was drinking coffee and using my computer and posting and reading lots and lots of things about Bernie Sanders like I have been doing for some time now.
Anyhow I come out to my car to find 2 stickers over my Bernie Sanders stickers.
As soon as I got to an internet connection again I went to look up what the fuck the stickers where for and then I found a pic of my car on their website Not only did they vandalize my car in my opinion they were trying to use my car to promote hate.
And posted to their own FB page The sticker says Warning This car is a MFZ which means a Muslim Free Zone The car owner confronted Hallinan on his Facebook page where she was mocked by the page s fans:Social media is a powerful tool that lets people come together from all over the world to share ideas.
Unfortunately, some of those people are only interested in spreading hate.
Hallinan is not only interested in spreading his bigoted message he s actually trying to profit from it by selling bumper stickers and promoting his store.Featured image from screenshot via Facebook