We ll wait for an apology from CAIR and the leftist media who couldn t slap an Islamaphobic label on American citizens fast enough US Muslim Saadiq Long made headlines after he was not allowed to fly to Oklahoma from Qatar to see his ailing mother.Saadiq was on the terror watch list and was not allowed into the country.
The left lashed out at government officials arguing that Saadiq was a victim of Islamophobia.
Saadiq was arrested earlier this month with his family members trying to get into Syria from Turkey to join ISIS.
Will CAIR rally around Saadiq now?CAIR officials greeted Saadiq Long when he arrived in Oklahoma from Qatar.PJ Media reported:A man, who just two years ago was the poster boy for the far-Left media s attacks against the U.S. government s no-fly list for unfairly targeting Muslims, finds himself and several family members sitting in a Turkish prison arrested earlier this month near the Turkey-Syria border as members of an ISIS cell.It s a long way from 2013 when Saadiq Long s cause was being championed by MSNBC s Chris Hayes, Glenn Greenwald, and Mother Jones, and was being represented by the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) terror front.His story got considerable media attention when his CAIR media representatives here pushed the story that Long wanted to return to his native Oklahoma from his current home in Qatar to visit his ailing mother but couldn t because he was on the TSA s no-fly list.
They said his case represented institutional Islamophobia.
Long s cause got international attention when Glenn Greenwald published an article at The Guardian saying that Long was effectively exiled from his own country.
Kevin Drum of Mother Jones branded it the Kafkaesque World of the No-Fly List.
CAIR has 22 article entries related to Long s case on its website.https://twitter.com/laurww/status/668974136207802368After several months of wrangling between his CAIR attorneys and the Department of Homeland Security, Long was temporarily removed from the no-fly list and allowed to return to Oklahoma.Once home, however, he was still subject to FBI surveillance according to claims he made during a press conference with his CAIR handlers.
Via: Gateway PunditAfter an incident with local police and the FBI, Long was apparently placed back on the no-fly list, preventing his return to Qatar.That prompted even more outrage from the far-Left media and garnered him an appearance with his CAIR handler on Chris Hayes MSNBC show:Glenn Greenwald used Saadiq Long s MSNBC appearance to get back in on the action:Glenn Greenwald used Saadiq Long s MSNBC appearance to get back in on the action:https://twitter.com/ggreenwald/status/302484198487359490Eventually, Long boarded a bus to Mexico and got on a flight there to return home to Qatar.U.S.
and Turkish officials confirmed Long s arrest to PJ Media, saying that he was arrested along with eight others operating along the Turkish-Syrian border.
So far, no U.S. media outlet has reported on his arrest.We don t expect them to offer an apology for their reckless and irresponsible pandering to Muslim terrorists..