54-year-old Dr. Dean Lorich, Associate Director of Orthopaedic Trauma Service at the Hospital for Special Surgery, as well as the Chief of the Orthopedic Trauma Service at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, was found dead in his apartment earlier this week.According to New York City police, he committed suicide by stabbing himself to death.That s a pretty normal way to commit suicide right?It s like the time when former President of the United Nations General Assembly John Ashe, was found dead in his apartment only days before he was set to testify against the Clintons in a corruption case.
The official reports indicated that Ashe died of a heart attack.The problem, however, is that police on the scene reported Ashe died when his throat was crushed during a work-out accident.Adding to the mysterious nature of Ashe s death was the fact that he had been slated to be in court Monday with his Chinese businessman co-defendant Ng Lap Seng, from whom he reportedly received over $1 billion in donations during his term as president of the U.N. General Assembly.
And then there was this: During the presidency of Bill Clinton, Seng illegally funneled several hundred thousand dollars to the Democrat National Committee.Now ABC News is reporting:An acclaimed trauma surgeon was found dead with a knife in his torso Sunday in his Park Avenue apartment in a suspected suicide, New York City police said.Dr.
Dean Lorich, 54, was the associate director of the orthopedic trauma service at the Hospital for Special Surgery who treated Bono in 2014 after the U2 frontman was badly injured in a cycling accident in Central Park.Lorich was also a professor at Weill Cornell Medical College.His death is being investigated as an apparent suicide, a New York Police Department official told ABC News.Initial investigations did not find any signs of forced entry at his apartment, the official said.
Authorities have not found a suicide note.Police responding to a 911 call of an assault in a Park Avenue apartment at 1:05 p.m. Sunday found Lorich unconscious and unresponsive with a knife in his torso, according to the NYPD.
Emergency medical service responders pronounced him dead.The email Wikileaks published, was highly critical of the failed relief efforts in Haiti and was shared by Cheryl Mills with Hillary Clinton.In 2010, Lorich was part of a relief effort that flew to Haiti as a volunteer to offer his skills for civilians who had been injured during the earthquakes that devastated the region.Within 24 hours of the earthquake, a 13-member team of surgeons, anesthesiologists, and operating room nurses was assembled, with a massive amount of orthopedic operating room equipment, and flew to Port-au-Prince with Dr. Lorich.Bill and Hillary Clinton s charitable Clinton foundation led the relief effort in Haiti raising millions of dollars from around the world to help the people recover from the natural disaster.
Sadly, most of the funds never reached the people of Haiti, but instead, lined the pockets of the Clintons associates who were meant to redevelop the nation, but never delivered.Dr.
Lorich and his team were there to help save the limbs of those injured, which without the proper medical treatment, would have meant amputation for a lot of people.Lorich described amputation in those conditions as a death sentence and hoped to treat as many sufferers as possible, saying: We expected many amputations.
But we thought we could save limbs that were salvageable, particularly those of children.
We recognized that in an underdeveloped country, a limb amputation may be a death sentence.
It does not have to be so.
With the amount of money that was being donated to Haiti for the victims, Lorich and his team expected to have full support when their plane touched down.Instead, he described the situation as shameful and witnessed, first hand, a huge misappropriation of funds, with the people affected by the disaster receiving no help whatsoever.Dr.
Lorich was disgusted by what he saw and sent an email to then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton s Chief of Staff Cheryl D. Mills to report what he had seen.In July 2017, a 50-year-old Haitian tied to the Clinton Foundation was found dead with a gunshot wound to his head.It s no secret that the Clinton Foundation has been facing credible reports of robbing impoverished Haitians who were devastated by Hurricane Hanna in 2008, through their foundation.
Haitians have been protesting for years outside of the Clinton Foundation offices over the theft of money that was donated by individuals and businesses to the Clinton Foundation that never made it to the poorest of the poor.One man was set to testify against the Clinton Foundation next week.
That man was 50-year-old former Haitian government official Klaus Eberwein.
He was found dead in his Miami home with a gunshot to the head that s been ruled a suicide by the Miami-Dade s medical examiner records supervisor.
(Think Vince Foster)Klaus Eberwein, a former Haitian government official who was expected to expose the extent of Clinton Foundation corruption and malpractice next week, has been found dead in Miami.
He was 50.Eberwein was due to appear next Tuesday before the Haitian Senate Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission where he was widely expected to testify that the Clinton Foundation misappropriated Haiti earthquake donations from international donors.Eberwein, who had acknowledged his life was in danger, was a fierce critic of the Clinton Foundation s activities in the Caribbean island, where he served as director general of the government s economic development agency, Fonds d assistance conomique et social, for three years.According to Eberwein, a paltry 0.6% of donations granted by international donors to the Clinton Foundation with the express purpose of directly assisting Haitians actually ended up in the hands of Haitian organizations.
A further 9.6% ended up with the Haitian government.
The remaining 89.8% or $5.4 billion was funneled to non-Haitian organizations.
The Clinton Foundation, they are criminals, they are thieves, they are liars, they are a disgrace, Eberwein said at a protest outside the Clinton Foundation headquarters in Manhattan last year.The former director general of Haiti, who also served as an advisor to Haitian President Michel Martelly, was also a partner in a popular pizza restaurant in Haiti, Muncheez, and even has a pizza the Klaus Special named after him.According to the Haiti Libre newspaper, Eberwein was said to be in good spirits , with plans for the future.
His close friends and business partners are shocked by the idea he may have committed suicide.
It s really shocking, said Muncheez s owner Gilbert Bailly.
We grew up together; he was like family.
Your News WireAmericans were warned about the crooked dealings of the Clinton Crime family when in September of 2016, former Senate President of Haiti, Bernard Sansaricq, shocked a large crowd at a Trump campaign event in Little Haiti, FL.
Sansaricq stood up during the public event and relayed his account of the Clinton s dirty dealings in Haiti while he was still in office.
To his credit, candidate Donald Trump allowed Sansaricq to speak his mind, and to expose the crimes of the Clinton s, who were attempting to scratch and claw their way back into our White House.Sansaricq claimed he begged the Clinton Administration not to invade Haiti.
His request was followed up with a visit by an anonymous messenger from the White House who encouraged him to side with the Clinton Administration and he would be the richest man in Haiti.
He also demanded that Hillary Clinton disclose the audit of all money related to the Haiti earthquake crisis, as he claimed they scammed the poorest citizens of Haiti out of BILLIONS of dollars through the Clinton Foundation.
Not even 2% of that money went back to Haiti.
So, Mr. Trump, we are asking you, begging you, the Haitian community will side with you if one day, you ask Hillary Clinton publicly to disclose the audit of all of the money they have stolen from Haiti in 2010 after the earthquake.
Haiti is a very poor country.
Haiti needs defenders.
You said you would champion our cause.
We welcome you sir and we will work with you.
Ask Hillary Clinton publicly, during your next debate for an audit of all of the money they have stolen from Haiti.
Only a couple of days before Eberwein s death, a Republican donor, and operative from Chicago s North Shore who said he had tried to obtain Hillary Clinton s missing emails from Russian hackers killed himself in a Minnesota hotel room days after talking to The Wall Street Journal about his efforts, public records show.In a room at a Rochester hotel used almost exclusively by Mayo Clinic patients and relatives, Peter W. Smith, 81, left a carefully prepared file of documents, which includes a statement police called a suicide note in which he said he was in ill health and a life insurance policy was expiring.