Chris Cuomo tries to argue with the brilliant Sebastian Gorka This is epic!The discussion began on the travel ban and devolved into CNN s rating and fake news Cuomo begins: I explain it by you wanting to go with the original model to make it easier to pass because you were mimicking what Obama did, and therefore masking your true intention was to not make it about travel, make it about Muslims.
And as you well know, not just in your own rhetoric but the president s, he has said time and again that he thinks there s a problem with Islam and that he thinks that the Muslims may have a problem with us.
As you know, with what we re seeing in the U.K. right now, attachment to the community of Muslims is so important, and the concern is that a move like this, trumpeted by the president in the midst of crisis in the U.K., sends an ugly message to our Muslim community here in the United States.
Gorka responded with this awesome comment: Well, unfortunately, what you ve just spun is classic fake news, Haha!
The argument soon turned to one about CNN s ratings:GORKA: That s why your viewing figures are in the tank.
CUOMO: No, actually we re up over 100 percent year over year.
But don t let the facts get in your way.
You re good at avoiding them.
GORKA: Unless you re being mandatory in every airport in America, you re in the tank, Chris.
CUOMO: We re up 100 percent year over year, Sebastian.
What you said is foolishly wrong it s not just abusive of fact, but its silly with its own logic.
CNN has benefited so greatly from the current dialogue and the demand for fact and testing power, that it is demonstrable by any metric you want to use.
But I don t care about that.
Let s put that to the side.
GORKA: Chris, you re just comedy now.
It s just comedy.
CUOMO: You may think it s comedy, but I want to address things that really matter.
GORKA: Getting two viewers instead of one is a 100 percent increase, Chris.
You know that, right?
CUOMO: Excuse me?
GORKA: Getting two viewers instead of one is a 100 percent increase as well.
CUOMO: That s not the numbers.
Those aren t the numbers involved.
But again, that s not the point.
GORKA: Chris you re playing games.
You re playing games.
CUOMO: Good try.
Good try.
I give you points for that, Sebastian.
Next time I see you, the meal is on me.
GORKA: Good spin, Chris.
CUOMO: But this isn t about CNN s success, because that s obvious.
GORKA: No, it s about relevance.Gorka is awesome!