Likening girls to common crops that should be rushed off to the market as soon as possible is a growing belief among conservative Christians.
If you have heard of the Duggar family you ve likely heard of the Quiverfull movement they belong to, which requires Christians to have as many kids as possible, which is why the Duggars have 19 children.But there is another part of the Quiverfull movement that is even creepier.One Quiverfull ministry not only pushes couples to pop out kids like rabbits, they preach that fathers should farm the girls like crops such as apples and give them over to men as early as possible .In other words, this Christian fundamentalist movement believe in child marriage like the ones Americans often are horrified by when we hear stories of little girls being married off to middle-aged men in the Middle East.Their website is called Let Them Marry, and one of the first things you would see is a tree shaped missive comparing little girls to apples that must be picked early by the farmer/father and provided to men who are in need.
Girls are like apples on trees.
Their fathers are the farmers, whose job is to care for them.
He must protect his apples from pests and disease.
He must guard them against thieves who may pick his apples prematurely.
Neither those at the top nor those at the bottom can help their location.
But, when each reaches peak ripeness, it is the farmer s job to harvest that fruit and give it to whom he will, to those in need.
So there is nothing wrong with the apples still on the tree and nothing wrong with the boys who seek them.
But it is the farmer s duty to provide for both, in due season.
Here s the image via Raw Story.A quote from the group leader, Vaughn Ohlman, makes it clear that this pedophilia comes not from the legalization of same-sex marriage like conservatives constantly claim, but directly from religious fanaticism, which former Quiverfull member Vyckie Garrison describes as a gross ideology combined with the Christian purity movement in which the value of a young woman is in her virginity a consumable commodity owned by her future husband, kept in trust by Daddy.
We believe that not only should most people marry, they should marry in their youth.
The Bible speaks of the wife of thy youth (Prov.
5:18; Is.
54:6; Mal.
2:14-15) and children of the youth (Ps.
127:4).
Scripture also speaks of not letting children pass the flower of their age (1 Cor.
7:36) Leaving the physically mature young man struggling with fornication and leaving the physically mature young woman wallowing in fruitless, barren celibacy these are both unscriptural and ungodly actions.In short, this conservative Christian group is a haven for pedophiles who are trying to use religious liberty to justify their sickening desire to marry and rape little girls.Just another example of the Christian Sharia law conservatives are trying to force down our throats.
Featured image from Pixabay