Madonna has never been shy about expressing the fact that she hates President-elect Donald Trump with a burning passion.
Not only was she a major supporter of Hillary Clinton, but after Trump was elected she was noting saying that she was ashamed to be an American (who could blame her?)
and that America was f*cked .And she s far from done speaking about Trump.
In a recent interview with Harper s BAZAAR, Madonna got real about how everyday life has been since the Electoral College allowed a completely undeserving bigot to lead this country for the next four years.
Opening up about a feeling that many of us are now all too familiar with, Madonna said that every day she s woken up and it s felt like when you break up with somebody who has really broken your heart.
Many Americans have been equally heartbroken and disappointed about the election results, and are frightened about the future of the country.
She said: It s like being dumped by a lover and also being stuck in a nightmare.
Reflecting on the night Trump was elected, Madonna said she was doing what most Americans were: I was sitting at a table with my agent, who is also one of my very best friends, and we were truly praying.
We were praying We were doing everything: lighting candles, meditating, praying, offering our lives to God forever, if only.
Despite the collective despair that many Americans are feeling right now, Madonna says that she and every other American that rejected Trump can t quietly accept defeat.
Putting herself and fellow celebrities on blast, Madonna urged anyone with a platform to speak out.
She said: I have to get way more vocal and become a little bit less mysterious.
What I find really astonishing is how quiet everybody is in my industry.
She revealed that while many celebrities are disgusted by Trump, they are afraid to get involved because they still want to maintain their popularity and because it doesn t affect their daily life yet, no one s doing anything about it.
If Trump s disastrous, bigotry-filled transition and upcoming administration is any indicator, our lives will be affected before we know it.
Now is not the time to be silent.TwitterTwitterFeatured image via Stephen Lovekin and Drew Angerer / Getty Images