Keep your eye on Anita Moncreif If knowledge is power she is the Democrat Party s worst nightmare.
When you re on the left, and all of your friends are leftists, and your parents are leftists, you don t hang around with other people, and you only get the view of folks as what you see on TV, and how they present it to you.
And you guys are seen as racist, angry people.
Every time they get a chance, that s the image they push out there on TV.
They try to find that one crazy Tea Party person and they try to get them to say something, and they make sure they play it on all the black stations.
And you see that and you say, Okay, these people are nuts.
So I didn t expect to find any kind of support from the Right.
Everything Anita Moncreif believed to be true about the Left changed when she took a job with ACORN and quickly discovered the Democrat Party was not really looking out for the interests of the Black community or low income neighborhoods.
When she began to understand they would do anything, including breaking the law, to grow the Democrat Party, she made the decision to expose them.
She quickly found out how the mainstream media will go to any length to keep the truth about the criminal Left from the American people.Watch her amazing story here: Decades after his death, Saul Alinsky s vision has become reality.
From Barack Obama to Hillary Clinton to ACORN to Black Lives Matter, Alinsky is more alive in his death now than in his four decades of community organizing.Anita is asking for the help of conservatives to make this movie a reality.
She needs YOUR help to build momentum for this film.Please consider giving whatever you can today.
Click HERE to donate $1, $5, $10, $20 or whatever you can afford.
This is an independent fund.
We have no big funders or organizations backing us yet.
That s why we need you.
We need to start shooting now.
Reaching our goal will allow us to begin shooting footage at the two party conventions and buy us time to raise awareness to raise the production, administrative, and promotional budgets for this much-needed film.We re going to communicate with you the audience.
Some of the footage we ll release before the film s debut.
We ll also communicate some of our successes and our challenges along the way.
Together, we can change the way films are produced and promoted.The American Left and the Right need to see this film and decide where we go from here.If the necessary funds aren t raised on Kickstarter, account funds won t be unlocked.Eight years after exposing ACORN, I have been immersed in training, speaking, and examining the effectiveness of the grassroots on both sides of the aisle.
I felt that my journey was not over, and I had many more truths to tell.
I am finally ready to offer a movement eye view of the legacy of Alinsky, and the rise of grassroots movements across the nation.
It s a huge effort, it s expensive, and the stakes are high, so please chip in $15, $50, $500 or more to fund our efforts to film at the DNC and RNC conventions in the next few weeks.Donate now to The Children of Alinsky (Phase 1)Together, we can do great things and the possibility of a documentary filmed and funded by ordinary people determined to implement change will be a major step toward illustrating how bottom-up change is done.Your friend, Anita MonCriefHere is Part II of Anita s amazing story: