President Zero F*cks Left Obama strikes again.Donald Trump addressed his leading role in the birther conspiracy regarding President Obama s birth certificate on Friday, but President Obama isn t impressed.On Thursday, the Republican nominee refused yet again to answer whether he believes that President Obama was born in Hawaii, telling the Washington Post, I ll answer that question at the right time.
I just don t want to answer it yet.
Following the interview, Trump s campaign issued a disgusting statement making Donald Trump look like a hero while painting Hillary Clinton as the villain in the story.
In 2011, Mr. Trump was finally able to bring this ugly incident to its conclusion by successfully compelling President Obama to release his birth certificate.
Mr. Trump did a great service to the President and the country by bringing closure to the issue that Hillary Clinton and her team first raised.
The problem is that Hillary and her campaign had nothing to do with the birther conspiracy.
As Politifact pointed out when it debunked Trump s claim last year, it was a mere volunteer who started the conspiracy via email.
No campaign official, nor Hillary Clinton herself, ever questioned President Obama s citizenship.Donald Trump, however, engaged in a vicious racist witch hunt over President Obama s birth certificate.
Trump constantly claimed that President Obama was not an American and that he was born in Kenya.
Of course, Trump was utterly humiliated by President Obama when he released his full birth certificate to the public for all to see, even though he did not have to do so.But Trump has refused to personally acknowledge that President Obama is the legitimate Commander-in-Chief and has never apologized for his attacks.On Friday, Trump finally acknowledged that President Obama was born in America, but still didn t apologize.
President Barack Obama was born in the United States, Trump said before adding, Period.
But it doesn t matter what Trump says because President Obama doesn t give a damn about what Trump has to say.When asked about Trump s upcoming announcement prior, President Obama slammed Trump and his birtherism.
I m shocked that a question like that would come up at a time when we ve got so many other things to do well, I m not that shocked actually.
It s fairly typical.
We got other business to attend to.
I was pretty confident about where I was born.
I think most people were as well an my hope would be that the presidential election reflects more serious issues than that.
Here s the video via Twitter.Obama: I was pretty confident about where I was born.
I think most people were as well.
https://t.co/R7dhUtPg4e https://t.co/HclWVwzYZw CNN (@CNN) September 16, 2016It s not enough for Donald Trump to acknowledge the truth.
He needs to man up and apologize for leading a persecution effort that did much damage and divided this country, especially if he wants any African-Americans to even consider voting for him in November.Featured image via Pete Souza/White House