Donald Trump s insane ways are no longer surprising but have become very predictable.
He rung in the new year with yet more Trump negativity and the usual antics we ve all become accustomed to.
Unabashed, like a spoiled baby that constantly gets reinforcement from the few people that actually like him, Trump went on another tantrum that he thinks will garner him yet more support.
He let loose on his Republican opponent Jeb Bush and on Hillary Clinton.
Take a look at his Twitter posts.
First comes his rant against his Republican rival, the squirmy Jeb Bush:.
@JebBush is a low energy "stiff" who should focus his special interest money on the many people ahead of him in the polls.
Has no chance!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2016.
@JebBush is a sad case.
A total embarrassment to both himself and his family, he just announced he will continue to spend on Trump hit ads!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2016I don t know about this one.
George Bush takes the cake for the biggest embarrassment, not only to his family, but to the nation.
After all, he s a certified war criminal.
As Americans, we have to constantly explain how we elected him once in the first place.
Yes, once.
His daddy helped him steal the first election.The next rant comes against former president Bill Clinton.
Harking on allegations that he s a sexist, Trump immediately took the opportunity to attack Hillary by going after Bill:I hope Bill Clinton starts talking about women's issues so that voters can see what a hypocrite he is and how Hillary abused those women!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2016Low blow by Trump.
After all, Bill s escapades have nothing to do with Hillary.
In fact, one can argue that she s shown both class and courage in the face of her husband s alleged extra-marital affairs.Here s another attack on Hillary.
This time it s against her alliance with Israel:Hillary Clinton said that it is O.K.
to ban Muslims from Israel by building a WALL, but not O.K.
to do so in the U.S. We must be vigilant!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2016This one is difficult to argue.
The bipartisan support for anything Israel is quite disturbing.
Trump is referencing Israel s illegal apartheid wall that has made islands of Palestinian towns and villages, cutting them off from each other and creating a situation in the West Bank that South African anti-apartheid activist Desmond Tutu has said is worse than anything he witnessed under the white regime that exploited blacks for decades.
We know how that system crashed, so the hope is that Hillary can change her ways and be on the side of justice and help end Israel s crazy experiment.
Former president Jimmy Carter even wrote a book about Israel s insanity.However, Trump gets no credit for this tweet since he s advocating a similar approach for Muslims in the United States and he s arguing that Hillary is a hypocrite since she supports walling the Palestinians, the majority of whom are Muslims (a large Christian Palestinian population including Bethlehem is walled as well).Donald Trump has received lots attention not only from his supporters but from those opposed to his stances.
He s an expert at generating attention by entertaining people.
But, just like a long running sitcom that slowly yet surely fades, many people are looking forward to the day when Trump is canceled.Featured image via Gage Skidmore