CNN hammered Trump for retweeting white supremacists while claiming that he ll get a tremendous amount of support from African-Americans.Donald Trump won the South Carolina primary on Saturday propelled partly by incredibly racist rhetoric about Muslims, and he has been criticized in the past for repeatedly retweeting posts made by white supremacists even while insisting that black voters are going to support him.But CNN host Jake Tapper called out Trump on Sunday for what smells like very strong bullshit.
A lot of Republican leaders in D.C. struggle to envision you accomplishing this, Tapper began after referring to Trump s plan to attract the support of black voters.
Especially given the fact that there are white supremacist groups and individuals like that who support you, some of whom you ve even retweeted.
Of course, Trump responded by claiming that he has no idea what Tapper is talking about and went on to claim in classic Trump form that African-Americans are going to come around and start flocking to his campaign.
Well, that, I know nothing about.
I don t now about retweeting.
You retweet somebody and they turn out to be white supremacists.
I know nothing about these groups that are supporting me The other thing is African-American voters, I think I m going to get a tremendous amount, Trump opined.
And you ve seen the stories where African-American leaders are saying, You know, my people really like Trump!
Because I m going to bring jobs back from China and Mexico and Japan and Vietnam and India and all these places, he added.
I m going to do great with the African-Americans.
Here s the video via YouTube.According to data published in January, 62 percent of the accounts Trump has been retweeting are connected to white supremacists so it s hard to believe that Trump doesn t know what he s doing.In fact, Trump is the candidate who is single-handedly responsible for the sharp rise in the number of KKK chapters across the country.So, it s not only difficult to believe that Donald Trump knows nothings about his Twitter shares, it s impossible to believe that African-Americans will flock to his campaign knowing that he is mostly supported by racist group that hate them.
Feigning ignorance does not absolve him from responsibility.Featured image via video screen capture