A woman in Indiana is feeling the pain of Donald Trump s immigration policies personally.
Apparently, she believed her family would be exempt because she voted for him.In 1998, Roberto Beristain crossed the southern border of the United States without documents to seek a better life.
He found one.He opened a restaurant called Eddie s Steak Shed, fell in love with a woman named Helen, married her, and had four children.Immigration and Customs ignored Roberto and decided not to follow an order to deport him for over a decade.
After all, he proved himself to be a model citizen and a productive member of society.
Plus, he routinely checked in with ICE.His hypocrite wife, on the other hand, only has herself to blame for what Roberto is going through now.Because of Trump s obsessive anti-immigration crusade, Roberto has now been arrested and is going to be deported on Friday after being in the United States for nearly 20 years.As it turns out, Helen is a Trump supporter.
She voted for him because she ironically believes that undocumented immigrants should be deported.
However, she seriously bought Trump s claim that he would only deport criminals.
The problem is that Trump and his rabid conservative base believe being an undocumented immigrant is a criminal act (it isn t).
[Trump] did say the good people would not be deported, the good people would be checked, Helen whined to Indiana Public Media.Of course, Trump lied.
Surprise!Did Helen think that because she supported Trump that his policies for everyone else would not touch her own family?
After all, Roberto is an undocumented immigrant and she was warned repeatedly during the 2016 campaign that Trump s immigration policies would even target immigrants who had not committed crimes.It s really hard to sympathize with Helen at this point.
She willingly voted for a man who has an open disdain for immigrants and her vote is now coming back to haunt her.One wonders if she will continue supporting Trump after this or will she be yet another of the growing number of Trump supporters who turned their backs on him after they discovered they had been duped?Trump s immigration policies are literally tearing families apart and creating an atmosphere of fear and hate across the nation.This story just further demonstrates that you get what you vote for.Featured image via Jim Lo Scalzo Pool/Getty Images