Donald Trump must be forced to resign or be impeached, because this is really bad.On Monday, Trump s delusional alternate reality was shattered into a million tiny pieces when FBI Director James Comey shot down his accusation that President Obama wiretapped him AND revealed that Trump is under investigation for possible collusion with Russia during the 2016 Election.As Comey spoke, one can only imagine that Trump was throwing a massive hissy fit as his wall of lies crumbled all around him and on live television no less.And we all know how much Trump hates being humiliated on national television.
His rants about Saturday Night Live have demonstrated that perfectly.The American people had a front row seat as Trump s credibility was flushed down the toilet into the very swamp he claimed he would drain.Trump is only 60 days into his presidency and he is already an unprecedented failure.Presidential historian Douglas Brinkley s evaluation of Trump s crash and burn is damning and only makes it clear that Trump will be the biggest loser in presidential history.Usually, historians avoid using the word treason when they evaluate a president, but Trump s case is so far beyond the pale that Brinkley pretty much had no choice.The fact that Trump is under investigation by the FBI right now and has been for months is absolutely astounding.
There s a smell of treason in the air, Brinkley told the Washington Post.
Imagine if J. Edgar Hoover or any other FBI director would have testified against a sitting president?
It would have been a mind- boggling event.
Indeed, even Richard Nixon didn t suffer such an embarrassment during his presidency despite being the only president who has resigned the office in disgrace.
At this rate, Trump is on pace to become the first to ever be ousted via impeachment.
This is the most failed first 100 days of any president, Brinkley continued.Again, Trump still has 40 days to go before his first 100 days are completed.
Yet he is already plagued by scandals and the American people despise him.
To be as low as he is in the polls, in the 30s, while the FBI director is on television saying they launched an investigation into your ties with Russia, I don t know how it can get much worse, Brinkley concluded.But it will get worse, especially as Trump s policies begin to take their toll on our nation.
The GOP healthcare bill that Trump thinks is wonderful is set to strip health insurance from tens of millions of Americans while causing the price of healthcare to skyrocket.Trump is gutting environmental protections, education, workplace regulations, food aid programs, the State Department, the United Nations, and just about anything else that helps or improves the lives of Americans, all while seeking huge tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy.And it s all to fund his useless border wall and an increase in spending to a military that he uses irresponsibly.Trump has also strained relations with China, Australia, Mexico, Germany, and Great Britain as international tensions rise.Clearly, it can get worse, and it likely will continue to do so until Republicans in Congress finally recognize that Trump is a threat to our republic and our survival as a nation.Featured Image: Capitol Hill Blue