When thinking about the qualities of someone who should be president, it should be someone who embraces the founding principles as mentioned in our founding documents.
Someone who respects freedom of speech, freedom of and from religion, equality under the law, and so on.When thinking about the qualities of Senator Ted Cruz, he doesn t seem to embody much, if any, of those founding principles as they are written.
However, he does embody the principles he imagines in his head of what the founders actually meant.
He thinks the nation was founded on Judeo-Christian principles, and sure, while some of the founders were Christian, many were Deist and didn t believe in the deification of Jesus as mentioned in the Christian Bible.However, Cruz, and several of those who seem to believe what they will about the Constitution and our founders, will continue to wrongfully tout the line that we re a Christian nation.
One of those individuals being the Texas senator s wife.While speaking to South Carolina radio host Vince Coakley, Heidi Cruz first told us all the qualities that embody her husband: a man of faith, a believer, a constitutionalist, defender of values, and doesn t waver from his beliefs.
However, then she goes on and says something that one can only assume is her declaring Ted Cruz as the second coming of Christ.
She said: When I thought about doing it for our country, it became very clear to me that our family must be in this race.
And it also became clear to me that we are at a cultural crossroads in our country and if we can be in this race to show this country the face of the God that we serve this Christian God that we serve is the foundation of our country, our country was built on Judeo-Christian values, we are a nation of freedom of religion, but the God of Christianity is the God of freedom, of individual liberty, of choice and of consequence.And I think that s something that this country really needs to be reminded of, is that Christians are loving people, are nonjudgmental people, but there is right and wrong, we have a country of law and order, there are consequences to actions and we must all live peaceably in our own faiths under the Constitution.
And Ted is uniquely able to deliver on that combination of the law and religion.
Ted Cruz is going to show us the face of God ??
What the heck kind of language is that?
And if we don t elect her husband, we re going against God?
How about this, let s not use any God as a political prop to garner votes in a flailing campaign.
Which is exactly what the Cruz family seems to be doing.Oh, and if we re to live in a nation that respects freedom of religion that s all religions or lack there of.
However, that freedom does not allow any religion to legislate by its religious principles.
So while many are terrified of Sharia Law, which is not allowed, neither is Christian Law.
Freedom of religion is the freedom to worship whatever you want on your own time as long as you re not harming others.
Now, if someone comes into your place of worship and tells you that you can t worship your God, well then that would actually be a violation of your freedom.
However, that s not happening, so all this religious freedom malarkey is being drummed up to rile up a base of voters that don t know any better.
And if she thinks her husband is nonjudgmental she must not be listening to the same guy we ve all been subject to hearing for far too long now.No, Heidi, your husband won t show us the face of God he s not the second coming of Christ, and he wasn t sent to this earth my means of Canada to govern the United States by Judeo-Christian principles.
You are mistaken.Listen here to Heidi Cruz go on and on about her husband:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/246382976 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]Featured image: Flickr/Wikimedia