Chris Christie has always been adamant that neither he, nor his staff, knew anything about the Washington Bridge lane closures intended to create serious traffic problems for a town whose mayor refused to endorse his re-election bid in 2014.
However, some new texts have surfaced in which two staffers discuss how Christie flat-out lied at a 2013 press conference where he insisted they were all innocent.The exchange was between Christina Renna and a campaign staffer, Peter Sheridan, and went like this: Are you listening?
He just flat out lied about senior staff and (former campaign manager Bill) Stepian not being involved, the aide, Christina Genovese Renna, wrote in a text message to campaign worker Peter Sheridan as they watched the Dec. 13, 2013 press conference, when the so-called Bridgegate scandal was just beginning to unfold.
I m listening.
Sheridan replied.
He added: Gov is doing fine.
Holding his own up there.
Renna wrote back: Yes.
But he lied.
And if emails are found with the subpoena or [campaign] emails are uncovered in discovery if it comes to that it could be bad.'
Lawyers for Bill Baroni, one of Christie s allies who s going on trial soon for his role in Bridgegate, submitted those texts as evidence that the blame for Bridgegate really lies with other people.
They re trying to convince the court that the government ignored key evidence in their investigations.Christie is becoming a well-known liar.
When asked about these texts, he flat-out said: I absolutely dispute it.
It s ridiculous.
It s nothing new.
There s nothing new to talk about.
He also tried to cast doubt on the texts by saying they came from a defense lawyer, and not from someone under oath.
Christie seems to think he can remain innocent in the eyes of, well, whoever thinks he s actually innocent, by implying the texts are either fabricated or taken so far out of context that they re meaningless.Christie hasn t been charged in the scandal.
Depending on what happens with this new evidence, though, that may change.
Either way, Christie looks worse than ever.Featured image by Alex Wong/Getty Images