How would have America reacted if this article was written by GQ Magazine during Barack Hussein Obama s run for President in 2008?
Where is the cry of racism from the right for calling one of the most brilliant pediatric neurosurgeons in history stupid.
The double standards and clear hypocrisy of the so called media that American consumers support when they purchase this trash is outrageous!
The real problem with the Left is that they just can t get their little minds around the fact that Dr. Ben Carson would suggest he would be willing to risk his own life for the sake of saving several others.
The wussification of America is happening at warp speed and unless every day Americans are willing to stand up to these freaks, we are going to lose our country.
Screen grab of article published in GQ Magazine.Here is a portion of the repulsive article written by GQ:You know, the only thing more alarming than Donald Trump leading the Republican presidential field is the fact that Ben Carson is the guy right behind him.
While establishment puds like Jeb!
Bush and Marco Rubio can t decide if they want to beat Trump or emulate him, the Good Doctor made it clear this week that he is not only willing to replicate Trump s signature brand of hot-garbage-spewing, but he ll say even DUMBER shit.
Here is Carson from earlier in the week on the Oregon shooter: Not only would I probably not cooperate with him, I would not just stand there and let him shoot me.
I would say, Hey, guys, everybody attack him.
He may shoot me, but he can t get us all.
Oh, but he wasn t done yet.
Carson knows a goldmine of asinine cannon fire when he sees it, so he went in again: I never saw a body with bullet holes that was more devastating than taking the right to arm ourselves away.
And again: I have had a gun held on me when I was in a Popeyes organization.
Guy comes in, put the gun in my ribs.
And I just said, I believe that you want the guy behind the counter.
That s right, Carson just threw the poor cashier right under the bus.
Whatever happened to having everyone attack the gunman, Doctor?
Does that strategy get tossed out the window when there s a convenient low-level cashier around to take the brunt of the crossfire?Here s the thing: I don t believe Carson when he says any of this.
I bet he wasn t even held up at that chicken joint.
Carson is a soft-spoken fella who knows that he has to make even sillier comments than the competition just so that his silly comments are heard.
You saw Bobby Jindal do the same thing this week when he called out the Oregon shooter s father as the main culprit in the massacre.You are now bearing witness to an arms race of stupid, because stupid is in such high demand from the GOP base at the present moment.
Stupid is what gets you attention, and attention is what gets you better polling numbers.Wow just wow!
!For entire story: GQ