When Donald Trump named Steve Bannon as his chief policy strategist, millions of Americans expressed outrage and fear because of Bannon s ties to white nationalists, who have been cheering about his appointment ever since it was announced.But now Bannon is giving Americans even more reason to be scared.During an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Bannon claimed that darkness is good and compared himself to Satan, Darth Vader and Dick Cheny.
Darkness is good, Bannon said.
Dick Cheney.
Darth Vader.
Satan.
That s power.
Satan is the evil ruler of Hell according to Christians, so Christians should probably start wondering if they put the anti-Christ in the White House.Darth Vader is a particularly bad choice to compare oneself to considering how much the Nazis influenced the themes and designs of Star Wars, including Vader s helmet, the Stormtroopers, and how democracy was turned over to a tyrant with applause.So it s definitely an eerie comparison that may be serving as a shout-out to neo-Nazis.And Dick Cheney is a war criminal who signed off on torture and lied us into two wars that cost thousands of American lives and trillions of dollars.Bannon claimed that he isn t a white nationalist but said that Trump s tenure in office will be as exciting as the 1930s.
You know, that decade when the Great Depression raged and fascism rose to power in Europe which led to the most horrifying and destructive war in all of history?
Yeah, that 1930s.And as if Bannon couldn t possibly say anything worse, he went on to say that he is the Thomas Cromwell of the Trump administration.
I am Thomas Cromwell in the court of the Tudors, he said.Thomas Cromwell was the chief minister to King Henry VIII, a despotic ruler of England who executed two of his wives.Seriously, Bannon is not doing Trump a service with these comparisons.
If anything, he just gave more reasons for people to call for his ouster.
Why would anyone want to unite behind someone who has one of these evil people or characters as their chief adviser?
Steve Bannon clearly is someone only white supremacists can love.Featured Image: Kirk Irwin/Getty Images