The Cincinnati Enquirer has endorsed Republicans for president for nearly a century but Donald Trump forced the paper to break the streak..Despite having reservations about Hillary Clinton, the longtime newspaper could not justify supporting the Republican nominee this time around.
Trump, despite all of his bluster about wanting to make America great again, has exploited and expanded our internal divisions, the Enquirer noted.The Enquirer has supported Republicans for president for almost a century a tradition this editorial board doesn t take lightly.
But this is not a traditional race, and these are not traditional times.
Our country needs calm, thoughtful leadership to deal with the challenges we face at home and abroad.
We need a leader who will bring out the best in all Americans, not the worst.That s why there is only one choice when we elect a president in November: Hillary Clinton.The Enquirer pointed out that Clinton has worked on both sides of the aisle to craft bipartisan legislation and has the experience necessary to be a good president in both domestic and foreign affairs.
Furthermore, the Enquirer appreciates that her campaign is inclusive, noting that she has fought for LGBT rights and supports income equality for women.Trump, however, only represents national ruin and embarrassment.Trump is a clear and present danger to our country.
He has no history of governance that should engender any confidence from voters.
Trump has no foreign policy experience, and the fact that he doesn t recognize it instead insisting that, I know more about ISIS than the generals do is even more troubling.
His wild threats to blow Iranian ships out of the water if they make rude gestures at U.S. ships is just the type of reckless, cowboy diplomacy Americans should fear from a Trump presidency.
Clinton has been criticized as being hawkish but has shown a measured approach to the world s problems.
Do we really want someone in charge of our military and nuclear codes who has an impulse control problem?
The fact that so many top military and national security officials are not supporting Trump speaks volumes.The Enquirer also noted that Trump is aligned with white supremacists and has filed bankruptcy multiple times, which defeats the notion that he is a successful businessman.In the end, there is only one real choice for president in 2016, and the Enquirer bucked a 100 year tradition and picked Hillary Clinton.In these uncertain times, America needs a brave leader, not bravado.
Real solutions, not paper-thin promises.
A clear eye toward the future, not a cynical appeal to the good old days.Hillary Clinton has her faults, certainly, but she has spent a lifetime working to improve the lives of Americans both inside and outside of Washington.
It s time to elect the first female U.S. president not because she s a woman, but because she s hands-down the most qualified choice.This endorsement is particularly important because Ohio is a swing state that will likely be a close call this November.
A newspaper endorsement like this one could help many voters make up their minds and could even change enough minds to make a difference.
The fact that this newspaper endorsed a Democratic nominee for the first time in about a century is, in the words of Joe Biden, a big f*cking deal.
Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images