Could anyone, in a million years, ever see Bobby Jindal doing the right thing and barring discrimination against LGBT citizens?
That would be a no, because the rabidly anti-gay governor would rather pander to the religious right.But thankfully, Louisiana s new governor, a Democrat, has morals.
And those morals include protecting all citizens from hurtful discrimination.John Bel Edwards, who was elected last November against serial adulterer David Vitter, signed a non-discrimination executive order which overrode an executive order put into place by Jindal that expanded provisions in a bill that allowed for a more rigorous approach to religious freedom.
Edwards slammed Jindal as pandering to a narrow political agenda.
Although the anti-discrimination executive order doesn t pertain to private businesses, it does ban discrimination against state employees and workers hired by state contractors.The action, however, does allow exemptions for certain religious organizations and churches.
Edwards addressed this concern, saying in a statement:While this executive order respects the religious beliefs of our people, it also signals to the rest of the country that discrimination is not a Louisiana value, but rather, that Louisiana is a state that is respective and inclusive of everyone around us.Contrast John Bel Edwards to Governors Pat McCrory and Phil Bryant.
If this isn t enough evidence as to why it s so important for Democrats to get out and vote, I don t know what would be.
As LGBT citizens across the South (and elsewhere) face intense attacks on their identity, Louisiana s Democratic governor stepped up and did the right thing.
In heavily conservative and unpredictable state, Edwards risks not just his own career, but those who support his actions risk theirs as well.That s real leadership.
Like Jindal s pandering, Bryant and McCrory serve only to do just that pander.
In their conservative states, they are safeguarded by the religious right and the Tea Party activists who cheer on discriminatory legislation.If the deeply religious, Catholic John Bel Edwards can see past religious pandering to do the right thing, so can any other politician.Featured image via screen shot from Campaign Ad