MSNBC host asked one final question during an interview with Rudy Guiliani on Thursday and his answer caused Matthews to take the former mayor to the woodshed.For years, Donald Trump has been outright accusing President Obama of not being born in the United States.
Then President Obama released his birth certificate to the public and thoroughly humiliated the businessman.And now that Trump is the Republican nominee, his birtherism is coming back to bit him in the ass as he has repeatedly been asked if he still believes President Obama was born in Kenya.So far, Trump has refused to talk about it and is hoping the media will just forget about the whole thing, but Chris Matthews had other ideas on Thursday as he cornered Rudy Guiliani about it.Matthews pointed out that Mike Pence and Ben Carson have both broken with Donald Trump to confirm that President Obama is the legitimately elected Commander-in-Chief of the United States.Guiliani claimed that he also believes that and said that Donald Trump believes that as well, but Matthews didn t buy it because Trump has avoided talking about it and has not publicly admitted that President Obama was born in America.
When did he do that?
Matthews demanded to know.Guiliani claimed Trump said it a few years ago, but that was news to Matthews, who continued to grill Guiliani about it.Guiliani then tried to blame Hillary Clinton for the birther movement, but Matthews quickly shut that lie down and made Guiliani squirm.
When is he gonna say that this president is legitimate?
Matthews repeated.
This is a fundamental question, mister mayor.
Is the President of the United States legitimate of not?
Guiliani continued to try and cover Trump s ass, but Matthews was not having any of it.
Can you commit to your candidate saying in the next 24 hours that President Barack Obama s a legitimate president?
Matthews asked.
Can you commit for him that he will say that?
But Guiliani couldn t even do that and ended up desperately trying to change the subject to Hillary Clinton.Here s the video via YouTube:Guiliani got his ass handed to him in this interview and that makes it very clear that Donald Trump needs to eat some crow and admit that President Obama is a legitimate president and reject birtherism once and for all.Featured Image: Screenshot