Univision anchor Jorge Ramos made Fox host Sean Hannity look like the angry Trump puppet that we all know him to be.Over a ten minute span, Hannity lost his temper with Ramos time and time again as he repeatedly tried to convince Ramos that Republican front-runner Donald Trump is not a racist and that he has confronted Trump about his hateful and bigoted rhetoric.Ramos relentlessly slammed Hannity for coddling Trump just as as he blasted Bill O Reilly for doing the same during an interview last week.Ramo pointed out that Trump is unfairly labeling all undocumented immigrants as horrible criminals who rape and murder.
Hannity defended Trump by claiming that Trump only said some are rapists and murderers.However, Hannity is wrong as usual.When Trump delivered his announcement that he was running for president in last June, he characterized most Mexicans as rapists and criminals.
Only some, he assumed, were good people.
In other words, he did not say only some commit crimes.
He said only some were good people and he only assumed that.
When Mexico sends its people, they re not sending the best.
They re sending people that have lots of problems and they re bringing those problems.
They re bringing drugs, they re bringing crime.
They re rapists and some, I assume, are good people, but I speak to border guards and they re telling us what we re getting.
He later doubled down on the racist remark.
The Mexican Government is forcing their most unwanted people into the United States, Trump said in a statement.
They are, in many cases, criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc.
Armed with truth on his side, Ramos refused to back down and continued criticizing Hannity until the Fox News blowhard shouted, I don t need any lectures from you, Jorge Ramos!
Hannity accused Ramos of not reporting truthfully and just like when he took down O Reilly, Ramos smacked Hannity around with facts until he was forced to end the interview as Ramos got in the last word.Here s part one and two of the interview via Fox.Jorge Ramos once again bested a Fox News host in their own house and proved once again who the real journalist in the room is.
Now if only Trump would agree to sit down for an interview with Ramos.
We would really see fireworks then.
Featured Image: Screenshot