Maine Governor Paul LePage has made quite a name for himself with his casual, yet blatant, racism.
But when someone calls him out on his bigoted remarks, he apparently gets his feelings hurt because he is such a sensitive guy underneath his hardened exterior.
Well, what does he do when someone tells the truth and his feelings?
Why, he throws a temper tantrum of course.LePage said on Wednesday that he was just downright crushed when he heard the news that Maine lawmaker Drew Gattine had called him a racist.
Turns out this wasn t even true, but LePage, being ever so devastated that he was called a racist for saying racist things, decided to respond by leaving a voicemail for Gattine calling him a c*cksucker and a son of a b*tch.
Don t forget, though, Lepage is the one we should feel sorry for.
He s the sensitive soul who just happens to say incredibly insensitive, racist stuff.
But dammit, calling him a racist just goes too far.
It hurts his feels!
I may not supposed to be that sensitive to these things, but I am, LePage confessed.
I lose sleep over this, and it s frustrating when you hear people talk about cheap political stunts to hurt their opponent and not do the right thing.
Being called a racist was a horrible thing for me.
It was enormously hurtful.
It hurt my family.
So just what does the good governor plan to do about all this?
Maybe try to stop spouting all the disgustingly racist things that have a habit of pouring out of his mouth?
Nope.
He s sensitive.
Just like a baby.
So he s throwing a temper tantrum and has announced that he isn t going to talk to the press anymore so that he doesn t get caught saying these racist things.
That ll teach the media!
I will no longer speak to the press ever again after today, LePage said.
And I m serious.
Everything will be put in writing.
I am tired of being caught the gotcha moments.
LePage made headlines when he said that all black people are drug dealers with names like D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty who come to his great state to impregnate young white girls.
He has ranted about immigrants working in restaurants, saying he needs an interpreter to understand them.
Then last week he declared that he is at war and naturally, he outright declared that blacks and Hispanics are the enemy.
Featured image via YouTube