Conservatives may have the nominee they wanted but they killed the Republican Party in the process and perhaps just guaranteed their own political doom for generations.That s what Republican strategist Nicolle Wallace felt like after Donald Trump concluded his acceptance speech on Thursday night.Throughout his speech, Trump attacked Hillary Clinton and President Obama and vowed to turn America into a nation that would be totally unrecognizable and unfriendly to our allies and ourselves.Trump wants to approach every problem from a business perspective and thinks he can bully our allies to renegotiate longstanding treaties without consequences.To him, everything is broken in America and he wants to rebuild it his way from the top down or destroy things altogether if conservatives want him to do so.He wants America to be feared instead of respected and wants to return to a pre-World War II political philosophy that led to such a war in the first place.So it s no wonder why Wallace lamented the death of her party in a discussion with Chuck Todd at the RNC Convention as Trump s speech came to a close.
You know, listening to this, I was struck by two things that I always believed during my two decades in the Republican politics.
One, the voters always get it right.
And two, the Republican Party that I worked for for two decades died in this room tonight.
We are now represented as a party by a man who believes in protectionism, isolationism and nativism.
And those are the forces that George W. Bush and, I believe, John McCain were most worried about during their times as the leaders of the Republican Party.
Indeed, George W. Bush is worried that he may end up being the last Republican president precisely because of how extreme Trump is.Chuck Todd asked Wallace if she really believes the party is dead, and she didn t back down.
Well, the voters picked this guy, this is where the Republican Party is now.
They now are attracted to those forces of isolationism and protectionism.
But the party I was part of for two decades is dead.
Here s the video via YouTube.Hopefully, voters are smart enough to vote against Trump in November, especially Republican voters who want their party to remain viable in the future.Featured image via YouTube