An anchor for Glenn Beck s TV network, The Blaze, is the latest right-wing media figure to attack Beyonc for her Super Bowl halftime performance.Tomi Lahren, who hosts the show Tomi, used her program to berate Beyonc s work.
Lahren, 23, argues that, Your husband was a drug dealer.
For fourteen years, he sold crack cocaine.
Talk about protecting black neighborhoods?
Start at home.
https://youtu.be/cwVnDRx8EikThat is a reference to Beyonc s husband, rapper and rap mogul Jay Z.
The strange bit is that Lahren is referring to behavior Jay Z engaged in when he was a teenager.
He is now 46 years old, and has had a multi-decade career topping music charts, producing some of the biggest names in music, working in fashion and other industries.
He is worth an estimated $520 million, and has sold over 100 million records and received 21 Grammy Awards.Lahren has inadvertently made a point about the racial injustice and prejudice Beyonc was alluding to in her performance and in the song Formation, when she reduces Jay Z s life to his teenage mistakes which he has been very open about in his work and ignores his business success and philanthropy (he was part of a $1 million donation to rebuild New Orleans after Katrina, for instance).She joins other conservatives like former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani in attacking Beyonc s performance for having the nerve to bring up Hurricane Katrina, black pride, and police shootings of black civilians.The mindset being promoted by Lahren in this attack definitely fits in with former Fox News host Glenn Beck, who welcomed her to The Blaze family in October of last year after several of her right-wing video rants went viral.Beck, who is still heard on the radio after a cascade of dropped sponsors pushed Fox to cancel his show.
Has a history of racially charged remarks.
He said President Obama had a deep-seated hatred of white people, claimed progressives were pushing for a race war, promoted a book written by an anti-semite, and repeatedly claimed Obama was trying to enslave people.Featured image via YouTube