George Zimmerman, the infamous neighborhood watchman/violent wannabe cop who murdered unarmed black teen Trayvon Martin is in the news again, and as usual, it is for nothing good.
Showing once more that he has absolutely zero remorse regarding the fact that he killed an unarmed teenage boy who was carrying nothing but Skittles and a can of iced tea, Zimmerman is now auctioning off the gun he used to kill Martin for more fame and money.However, Zimmerman s efforts to sell the murder weapon have been quite rocky.
First he tried to use a gun dealer called Gunbroker.com to sell the Kel-Tec PF-9 that he used to gun the teen down in cold blood, but the site has now removed the advertisement, in which bidding for the gun started at $5,000.
Don t be too happy with Gunbroker.com just yet, though.
This is the same website that allowed targets that strongly resembled Trayvon Martin available when the controversial shooting was still in the news.
The social media sites of Gunbroker.com are now down, including their Facebook and Twitter, because they know how wrong they are for allowing Zimmerman to list this gun in the first place.
The listing on the site now reads, Sorry, but the item you have requested is no longer in the system.
As if this cowardice isn t bad enough, another gun dealer has taken up the cause of allowing George Zimmerman to continue to profit from his murdering without remorse of an unarmed child.
A site called United Gun Group has taken up Zimmerman s fame-whoring, murderous, money-making cause, and they have released the following statement regarding the listing of Zimmerman s weapon, via TMZ: A spokesperson for unitedgungroup.com says he got in touch with Zimmerman through a mutual friend once the initial listing was removed.
He tells us unitedgungroup.com s stance on the controversial item is if it s legal, they have no objections and it comes down to a moral decision for George to do what he wants with his property.
But, as we are all well aware, acquittal and/or legality does not always = justice.
Then again, we really can t expect gun nuts to know or care anything about these simple facts, or about the crazy and unjust law that allowed this goon to literally get away with murder.
George Zimmerman is a murderer, and he has profited without remorse for being a murderer, and these events show that he continues to do so.Shame on anyone who helps this despicable excuse for a human being continue to get rich quick and rub salt in the wounds of Trayvon Martin s grieving family.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images