They knew!
Can you believe these people?
FOX News reported earlier that the release of this report was delayed twice today.
Now we know why they released it late.
These people are sickening!
Please never forget these American heroes left to die by this woman.
The U.S. State Department told a watchdog group in 2013 that it didn t have any information about former secretary Hillary Clinton s emails, even though dozens of senior officials knew she was using a private server for all her electronic communications.A report released Thursday by the agency s inspector general a powerful and impartial internal investigator described a cavalier culture about transparency inside Clinton s agency, saying that 177 requests for documents about Clinton are still pending nearly three years after she left office.
The Freedom of Information Act requires federal agencies to respond to requests for information within 20 business days.
The botched FOIA request, filed in December 2012 just before Clinton left office, specifically asked whether or not Clinton used an email account other than one hosted at state.gov.
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a liberal group, was reacting to news that former Environmental Protection Agency administrator Lisa Jackson had used an alias Richard Windsor to send and receive emails in a way that couldn t be tied to her when FOIA requests came in.
In May 2013 the State Department responded to CREW s request, saying it had no records related to what the group asked for.
By then, Clinton had spent four years emailing department employees from her private home-brew account, but had never turned the messages over to the State Department.
That CREW request was filed in December 2012, just before Mrs. Clinton left office, and specifically asked whether Mrs. Clinton used anon-State.gov email account for government business.
At the time the request was received, dozens of senior officials throughout the Department, including members of Secretary Clinton s immediate staff, exchanged emails with the Secretary using the personal accounts she used to conduct official business, the Office of Inspector General concluded.
OIG found evidence that the Secretary s then-Chief of Staff was informed of the request at the time it was received and subsequently tasked staff to follow up.
However, OIG found no evidence to indicate that any of these senior officials reviewed the search results or approved the response to CREW.
The employees responsible for searching the State Department s records, the report says, never searched any email records, even though the request clearly encompassed emails.
State has received an unprecedented crush of requests for Clinton-related documents 240 in all, a number bigger than those related to secretaries Madeline Albright, Colin Powell, Condoleeza Rice and John Kerry combined.
But the inspector general found that the agency cut the number of people processing those FOIA requests as they poured in.
Clinton s emails sat on her private server for years until the State Department asked her in 2014 to turn them over.
She deleted more than half of the messages, calling them personal in nature, before complying.
In the meantime, however, her emails were out of reach when federal employees searched for records that might satisfy FOIA requests.Read more: Daily Mail