During president-elect Donald Trump s first press conference in 167 days, things got heated up when he singled out a CNN reporter over the network s recent report which says that Russians have personal and financial compromising information on the incoming president.
As it happens, Sen. John McCain can back up that report.Trump looked to call on other reporters, then Jim Acosta yelled out, Since you are attacking us, can you give us a question?
Not you, Trump said.
Your organization is terrible!
You are attacking our news organization, can you give us a chance to ask a question, sir?, Acosta pressed on.
Trump shot back, telling the reporter, don t be rude.
I m not going to give you a question, Trump declared.
I m not going to give you a question.
You are fake news!
After Trump lashed out at Acosta, cheers and laughter could be heard.Acosta said, Now, Mr. President-elect, that s not appropriate!
Watch:Joy Reid from MSNBC tweeted, Can a reporter in the room tell us who that cheering section was?
#TrumpPressConference.
A few reporters weighed in saying that the laughing and cheering came from Trump s staff.Can you imagine the deafening outrage from conservatives if Obama did this:Trump s family waited in the wings of the stage to his right, while senior advisers including Steve Bannon, Kellyanne Conway, Sean Spicer and Steve Mnuchin stood to the left, out of view of the cameras.
A small, vocal group clustered near Trump s family by the elevators acted as cheerleaders for the President-elect for the duration of the hour-long event, laughing heartily at his jokes and responding aloud to his rhetorical questions.Trump was asked by a reporter if Russian president Vladimir Putin would have found Hillary Clinton to be a greater adversary, and a few of his staffers called out no!
They cheered at various moments for the president-elect, likely to feed his massive ego.Trump also called BuzzFeed News a failing pile of garbage.
Luke Lewis, founding editor of BuzzFeed, joked about it on Twitter, writing that they have a new tagline, and included in the image, it reads, A Failing Pile Of Garbage.
Pleased with our new tag line pic.twitter.com/sFCMrX91qO Luke Lewis (@lukelewis) January 11, 2017Imagine if President Obama refused questions from Fox News reporters and screamed out, You are fake news!
By the way, Fake News handed Donald the election.Image via screen capture.