Michael Jordan is quite possibly the best basketball player to ever live.
Now, he is using both his fame and fortune to fight against the killings of unarmed black men by law enforcement as well as violent attacks against police officers.Jordan made his powerful statements in an essay posted at The Undefeated.
He began by condemning the violence against both American-Americans and law enforcement.
As a proud American, a father who lost his own dad in a senseless act of violence, and a black man, I have been deeply troubled by the deaths of African-Americans at the hands of law enforcement and angered by the cowardly and hateful targeting and killing of police officers, he began.The famed athlete continued, saying that he is saddened and frustrated by the divisive rhetoric and racial tensions that seem to be getting worse as of late.
I know this country is better than that, and I can no longer stay silent, he said.
We need to find solutions that ensure people of color receive fair and equal treatment AND that police officers who put their lives on the line every day to protect us all are respected and supported.
Jordan explained that because of his experiences with the police officers who have protected his family over the years he has seen up close the dedication of the law enforcement officers and has the greatest respect for their sacrifice and service.
But he then went on to say that as he knows that many African-Americans experiences with law enforcement have been different than mine.
I have decided to speak out in the hope that we can come together as Americans, and through peaceful dialogue and education, achieve constructive change, wrote Jordan.In an effort to help find a way to put an end to the violence, Jordan announced that he is putting his money where his mouth is and donating $1 million each to the International Association of Chiefs of Police s newly established Institute for Community-Police Relations and the NAACP Legal Defense Fund.
The Institute for Community-Police Relations policy and oversight work is focused on building trust and promoting best practices in community policing, Jordan explained.
My donation to the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the nation s oldest civil rights law organization, will support its ongoing work in support of reforms that will build trust and respect between communities and law enforcement.
Jordan said that he knows these contributions will not solve the problems plaguing our country, but he is hoping that his donations will help both organizations make a positive difference.
We are privileged to live in the world s greatest country a country that has provided my family and me the greatest of opportunities, Jordan concluded.
The problems we face didn t happen overnight and they won t be solved tomorrow, but if we all work together, we can foster greater understanding, positive change and create a more peaceful world for ourselves, our children, our families and our communities.
Jordan s essay and donations come in the wake of deadly attacks on police officers in Dallas and Baton Rouge following the fatal police shootings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile.Featured image via Streeter Lecka/Getty Images