Media Matters reports that on Friday morning, Joe Scarborough made a total ass of himself by comparing Donald Trump, the racist, sexist, knuckle-dragging buffoon, to the artist now and forever known as Prince:DONNY DEUTSCH: Trump voters, we all know right now, are so sticky.
They re not going anywhere.JOE SCARBOROUGH (HOST): Yeah.DEUTSCH: Everybody who s voted for Hillary, well, I guess Hillary.
Number two, he can go to the left and right of Hillary and pretty much put portfolio of issues together he s behind.NICOLLE WALLACE: Because he doesn t really care that much.
I mean, he s so nimble.DEUTSCH: And to the point, to this last point SCARBOROUGH: And by the way.
I ll give you the last point in a second, but just on this other point where you said he s so flexible, he s like Prince, a shape-shifter, New York Times top left, election 2016, Trump s views on gay issues set him apart on the GOP.
I mean, Trump on social issues, on Planned Parenthood, when he was in the middle of the fight in South Carolina, it wasn t like he was hiding things.
And so Hillary is going to be up against a guy that not only says we re not going to cut Social Security, I m with you on social issues.
And by the way, we re going to kill ISIS in two weeks.Joe Scarborough is so far up Trump s ass that he probably thought this was a compliment to Prince.
But let s be honest, Prince was an artist, a priceless cultural treasure that elevated his field.
He influenced an entire generation of musicians and his presence will be sorely missed.Trump, on the other hand, is a con artist, a tacky cultural eyesore like his ugly buildings.
His influence is a net negative for society.
And that was BEFORE he got into politics.
Trump s candidacy is not about the lowest common denominator, it IS the lowest common denominator.
When he loses in November and eventually fades away in disgrace, no one will miss him but racists and misogynists.Scarborough was trying to compare their shape-shifting in a favorable way but Prince constantly re-invented himself while holding on to the core of his genius.
Trump has no core other than, Will it make me money and/or more famous?
This was a sad display, even for a hack like Scarborough.Here s the video:Featured image via screencap