After Gov.
Pat McCrory (R) signed HB2 dubbed the bathroom bill into law, the state lost a lot of business.
Corporations canceled expansions in the state, therefore scrapping jobs that they were planning to offer and entertainers canceled events over the anti-LGBT law.
Some of the business that N.C. lost made its way to Virginia.The Roanoke Times threw its support behind McCrory s re-election in the trolliest way possible.
Which candidate would do the most to help our local economy?
That s easy.
It s Pat McCrory, the Republican governor of North Carolina, who s seeking his second four-year term in the November election.
reads the Friday editorial.
We can point to specific and multiple ways he has helped the economy our economy.
North Carolina panicked and made a spectacle of itself by passing HB2, its so-called bathroom bill.
In response, various companies and even sports leagues pulled events from the state, the editorial continues.
Three of those have wound up in Salem the NCAA Division III men s and women s soccer championships, as well as the Division II Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association football championship.
That s money in the bank for us, it says.The endorsement further states:McCrory has given Virginia a competitive advantage in economic development, as well.
When the University Economic Development Association recently held its national conference in Roanoke, the keynote speaker highlighted a North Carolina program to encourage partnerships between colleges and companies, as a way help recruit technology companies interested in research and development.
The speaker hailed it as a model for other states to follow as they try to build a knowledge economy.
Then the speaker noted that McCrory had cancelled it.
The pro-business audience groaned.On Monday, a data company picked Richmond as the site for a new office, with 730 jobs.
Industry officials said it beat out Charlotte specifically because of HB2.Feel free to argue all you want which presidential candidate would be best, but it s clear that Virginia would be best served if North Carolina re-elected McCrory.In March, McCrory signed HB 2 into law which prohibits transgender people from using public bathrooms that match the gender they identify with.
McCrory wants government so small it can fit in your bathroom.The state is losing money due to Gov.
Bigot s insistence of signing the law.
$395 million isn t exactly peanuts.And there s more:That doesn t include the $250 million and 730 jobs the state lost this week when CoStar Group, a real estate research firm, announced it chose Richmond, Virginia, for a major expansion instead of Charlotte, North Carolina, because of the law.Business boycotts and pullouts have cost North Carolina another $87.7 million, according to Wired.Roy Cooper is leading McCrory in the polls.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty.