Brian Mast scorched the Democrats for their lying about the health care bill: I too am a person with preexisting conditions and I believe it s not something I should just do but a responsibility for me to be the staunchest advocate for people out there who have preexisting conditions.
And that is why I m such an ardent supporter of this bill.
I think every American and every person out there with preexisting conditions should be asking themselves, how is it that they have coverage if every single insurance provider has pulled out of the market?
If there s no entity to go out there and provide insurance, how is it that preexisting conditions could possibly be covered?https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=5&v=30ZhPidmLBQGo get em!PELOSI AND USUAL SUSPECTS LIE THROUGH THEIR TEETH ABOUT THE BILL:Pelosi held a fear mongering press conference where she claimed Republicans would have a scar they would carry with them Well, ok She then said Republicans will glow in the dark Huh?Her hands were shaking the entire speech very bizarre indeedHouse Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., warned that Republicans who vote to pass the American Health Care Act today will have a scar they will carry from that vote, and that they will be forever identified with the vote.
They have this vote tattooed on them.
This is a scar they will carry, Pelosi said when asked if the House bill could be improved in the Senate.
It s their vote, not the Senate vote.
It s their vote they are taking.
So that is really a poor choice cowardly, I might add.
Why would they vote for it if they don t think it s worthy of support because the Senate will change it?
LIZ WARREN PEOPLE WILL DIE!
Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren called the House GOP s plan to repeal and replace parts of the Affordable Care Act a cruel way to enrich the wealthy and cut insurance from many Americans.Warren said too many Republicans are treating the bill like it s a game: This isn t football.
It s not about scoring points.
#AHCA will devastate Americans healthcare.
Families will go bankrupt.
People will die, she tweeted.