Donald Trump took his campaign against Hillary Clinton to a brand new low on Wednesday.During an interview with Sean Hannity on Fox News, the conservative host and presumptive Republican presidential nominee attacked Clinton s husband, former President Bill Clinton, in an effort to defend Trump and his mistreatment of women.
Are they going to interview Juanita Broaddrick?
Hannity asked before listing other women who have brought sexual misconduct allegations against Clinton.
Are they going to interview Paula Jones?
Are they going to interview Kathleen Willey?
Hannity then went into the details of the allegations, none of which ever led to Clinton being charged by law enforcement or tried in a court of law.
In fact, two of the accusers mentioned by Hannity have testified under oath that Clinton never made unwanted sexual advances toward them.Then Trump chose to chime in and the interview only got uglier.
In one case, it s about exposure, Hannity continued.
In another case, it s about groping and fondling and touching against a woman s will.
And rape, Trump replied.
And rape, Hannity agreed.Trump went on to attack Clinton by mentioning his 1998 impeachment, which failed despite a hypocritical witch hunt by Republican lawmakers, many of whom have been embroiled in their own sordid sex scandals.
And big settlements, massive settlements and lots of other things, Trump said.
And impeachment for lying, and losing your law license.
You know, he lost his law license, OK?
He couldn t practice law.
And you don t read about this on Clinton.
Trump then took aim at the New York Times for publishing an article detailing how Trump behaved with women in private by conducting 50 interviews in six weeks with women who had worked with or for Mr. Trump over the past four decades, in the worlds of real estate, modeling and pageants; women who had dated him or interacted with him socially; and women and men who had closely observed his conduct since his adolescence.
Their accounts many relayed here in their own words reveal unwelcome romantic advances, unending commentary on the female form, a shrewd reliance on ambitious women, and unsettling workplace conduct, according to the interviews, as well as court records and written recollections.
The interactions occurred in his offices at Trump Tower, at his homes, at construction sites and backstage at beauty pageants.
They appeared to be fleeting, unimportant moments to him, but they left lasting impressions on the women who experienced them.
I was so furious at that story, because there s nobody that respects women more than I do, Sean, you know that, Trump claimed.
And I treat women with respect.
And I have we all have fun.
We all have good times.
Here s the video:Of course, Bill Clinton isn t Trump s opponent in this race.
Hillary Clinton is.
So attacking her husband is as bad as attacking Michelle Obama or Heidi Cruz.It s not only a cowardly attack, it s false line of attack that has nothing to do with the battle between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump.
If anything, this makes Trump run for the presidency even more of an uphill climb.70 percent of women hold an unfavorable view of Trump, and unlike his attacks on Bill Clinton, Trump s own conduct with women is an issue in this election.
And that conduct has already been turned into an effective campaign ad and will probably lead to the creation of many more.Featured image via screencapture