As Iowa voters prepare to head to the state s caucuses on February 1, candidates on both sides of the political fence are ramping up their efforts in the state.
That s to be expected.What wasn t quite as expected, however, is this absolutely cringeworthy attempt by conservative candidate Mike Huckabee to appeal to Iowa millennials.The ad seems to be trying (somehow) to capitalize on the popularity of Adele s 2015 hit song, Hello.
The singer attempting to imitate Adele in this video does a really terrible job.
That may not be entirely her fault, though.The bizarre lyrics are a truly terrible, swiss-cheesy attempt to string together a bunch of really awkward keywords like pizza ranch, and selfie stick.
But it s not just that the lyrics are bad.
They also don t fit the music.
That means the singer is stuck trying to try to fumble through lines like: Hello Davenport.
Amish chairs, Casey s jerky, Quad cities has quite a port.
And then there s Huckabee.
His desperate attempt to seem cool or relevant or in the know just leaves everyone who sees this shaking their heads, saying, Please no.
The Wall Street Journal published the video to YouTube on January 28.
If you want to know how bad it is, just watch it for yourself below.
Adele filed a copyright infringement notice against Huckabee over the use of the song, which he arrogantly ignored.During a January 28 interview on Fox, Huckabee stated that it s his right to use the song, even though the singer has specifically said he can t. According to Huckabee, the bizarre video is supposed to be political parody, which he says is protected by free speech.When told that the Attorney General says otherwise, Huckabee claimed that people not wanting their work mangled and distorted by his trashy political campaign are just overly sensitive.
Not surprisingly, Huckabee likened the singer s right to protect her copyrighted property to an attack on American freedoms.
You see, it s his God-given right to infringe on her copyright.This is so typical of how the right wing operates.
I m entitled to everything that belongs to others.
No-one is entitled to anything that belongs to me and my billionaire buddies.
Huckabee s not the only Republican politician to use Adele s music without her permission.
As Addicting Info reports here, Donald Trump has also been using her music during his campaign events.On February 1, a spokesman for the musician told the UK Independent that she does not want her music associated with any political campaigning.Here s a bit of advice.
Get Ted Nugent.
He s one of the few musicians that actually agrees with the republican party s agenda.
Why not play one his formerly-popular tunes, like Jail Bait, for example?I bet Huckabee could even get his good friend, Josh Duggar, to do a parody of that one.Featured image credit: video screen capture from Wall Street Journal on youtube