If today on Fox News was any indication at all, Donald Trump may have finally gone too far, even for some of his base, when he tweeted this Thursday morning about Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski:I heard poorly rated @Morning_Joe speaks badly of me (don t watch anymore).
Then how come low I.Q.
Crazy Mika, along with Psycho Joe, came.. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017 to Mar-a-Lago 3 nights in a row around New Year s Eve, and insisted on joining me.
She was bleeding badly from a face-lift.
I said no!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017While his spokespeople have been working overtime defending the indefensible and sexist tweets, even Fox News thought it was over the top and even Fox News is beginning to see how much better we had it under President Obama.Scarborough and Brzezinski s network, MSNBC, along with CNN, was airing live remarks by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin during a White House press briefing, but Fox uncharacteristically broke away to talk instead about the tweets with Republican National Committee chair Ronna Romney McDaniel:McDaniel defended the president, arguing that his tweets were a natural response to the constant criticism he receives from Brzezinski and co-host Joe Scarborough.
Today, the president acted like a human, and he pushed back, she said.Fox News anchor Julie Banderas wasn t buying the excuse.
Listen, she replied, you don t need to stoop to the level, obviously.
I don t care who you are.
You don t stoop to the level of that.
I mean that s like me scolding my 4-year-old for using a bad word and then me repeating it.
That s just not how you run a country or you parent a 4-year-old.
I mean I have to be honest, you know, if you see this negative commentary on a show, change the channel.
Ignore it.
I mean that s what I tell my kids: When somebody s mean to you, don t fight back.
Just walk away.
Source: Washington PostThat s not even the best part, Banderas, who s hardly a token liberal (just yesterday she blamed Democrats for the fact that Republicans can t pass Obamacare repeal), went on to compliment President Obama.
People used to call President Obama stupid, she said.
People used to call him a Muslim.
People used to call him underqualified, a sellout to America, a hater of Israel.
I mean they called him every name in the book, but you didn t see him lash out.
No, you didn t. As Trump keeps embarrassing the Republican Party, you re going to see a lot more people distancing themselves.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images