This photo shows the gravesite of Susan B. Anthony, the pioneering activist who tirelessly pushed for women s equality specifically suffrage, the right to an equal vote on the day of the 2016 presidential primary in New York.The photo shows a group of I voted stickers affixed to Anthony s tombstone, which is in Mount Hope Cemetery, in Rochester, NY.Greta Selin-Love, who posted the photo, said she got a little weepy looking at the picture as was thinking back to all the work that Susan B. did for us.
It is definitely worth noting that the photo comes on the same day that a woman who is very likely to be the first female president, Hillary Clinton, won the New York primary with over a million votes.Susan B. Anthony was born in 1820.
She formed the Women s Loyal National League with Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and quickly launched the largest petition drive up that point in American history, with 400,000 signatures demanding the abolition of slavery.Anthony followed that up with an organization demanding equal rights for women and blacks.Her activism in service of women s suffrage was launched after she was arrested in Rochester in 1872 for the crime of voting as a woman, and went to trial because she refused to pay the fine.
That led to the creation of an amendment giving women the right to vote, which Anthony traveled around the country giving speeches pushing for.She died in 1906, unfortunately not seeing her dream realized.
But in 1920, the Ninteenth Amendment became the law of the land, denying the right to deny anyone the right to vote based on their gender.
It is only a few words, but they are powerful:The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.Anthony was later honored with her image on a U.S. postage stamp, and her face also appeared on $1 coins.
But most importantly her legacy is felt every time a woman casts a ballot in America, ratifying over and over true equality.Featured image via Facebook