Art Halvorson, a Tea Partier with a major agenda, is running for office against Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA), who is the chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
Ordinarily, this wouldn t be news, except that Halvorson is literally willing to do anything it takes to beat Shuster.
Even if it means running as a Democrat.There s a reason to gag here, because it s like Halvorson is actually willing to infiltrate the Democratic Party in order to accomplish his aims.
In fact, the worst kind of Tea Partier is one who will literally do anything, no matter how slimy, to win an election kind of like Donald Trump.
There s a reason the Tea Party is such a problem.A spokesperson for Shuster hit the nail on the head on Halvorson s absolute buttfuckery: By running for Congress as a Democrat after beating the other Democrat by 41 votes in the primary, Art Halvorson has proved that he cares about one thing and one thing only himself, said Casey Contres, a campaign spokesman for Shuster.
Not only is he betraying Democrats by calling their party Godless while forcing them to accept him as their nominee, but he is also betraying the will of the Republican primary voters that have twice rejected his attempt to get a job in Congress.
He s betraying the will of the Republican primary voters, that have rejected him.
Here s a clue that he s unhinged: Halvorson lost his primary against Shuster, but he doesn t think that s the end of it.
That s disgusting right there, because the Tea Party is supposed to be all about the will of the people over tyranny.
They want small government, and think the people should hold the power.
Does Halvorson think that the primary didn t reflect what the people of Pennsylvania s 9th District somehow?
How is this kind of manipulation in keeping with what the Tea Party stands for?Simple answer: It doesn t.Halvorson is sick, like the entire Tea Party.The oddest thing is that he wants to let voters know that he s a Republican running as a Democrat, so they know they need to actually swallow their pride and (gasp!)
vote Blue!
But he faces a ridiculous battle.
Gillian Kratzer, chairwoman of the Blair County Democrats, which is where Halvorson is running, says that Democrats won t be fooled.
She believes he should know that Democrats won t support him.
Republicans probably won t, either.Halvorson embodies Tea Party desperation at its finest.
Many don t see how he ll win, but all that matters to him is himself.
Who knew a Tea Partier could be so selfish?
Oh wait.Featured image via Art Halvorson s Twitter account