Donald Trump visited Flint, Michigan on Wednesday.
Of course, that city is the place where is a crisis regarding having unusable water due to dangerously high lead levels and pipes that need to be replaced.
While there, Trump toured a water plant and visited a Black church, where he pretended to care about the community, which is mostly poor and black, and suffering badly due to the water crisis.This was a bad idea in the first place, as the Mayor of Flint, Michigan, Democrat Karen Weaver, had already told Trump and his campaign that her city s very real issues were not to be used as some kind showboating photo-op.
However, as per usual, Trump did what he wanted anyway, and when it didn t go well, he did what he usually does in such instances: LIED.Thursday morning, Trump went on Fox and Friends and criticized the pastor of Bethel United Methodist Church, Faith Green-Timmons.
We ve all seen the viral video in which Pastor Green-Timmons shut Trump down when he attempted to use her church as a platform to attack Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, and in response, Trump lashed out at her on Fox News, calling her, quote, a nervous mess.
Trump them went on say that the audience wanted him to keep speaking, but luckily there was an NPR reporter in the audience at the time, so those of us who weren t there can get the real story about what went down.
From NPR: The audience was saying let him speak, let him speak, Trump told Fox and Friends.That isn t true.
In fact, several audience members began to heckle Trump, asking pointed questions about whether he racially discriminated against black tenants as a landlord.And that s when Green-Timmons who Trump said Thursday had planned to ambush him stepped in to defend Trump, saying the Republican nominee was a guest of my church, and you will respect him.
Thank you.
Thank you, pastor, Trump responded.The pointed questions for Trump continued as Trump wrapped up his remarks, though and that s the moment when the press traveling with Trump was hastily escorted out of the room.Well, there you have it, folks.
The people in the traditionally Black church saw right through Trump s attempt to pander and pretend that he actually cares about their well being, when, in fact we all have witnessed Trump s racism on full display throughout this travesty of a campaign.
These people weren t having it, though, and they let Trump know exactly what they think of him.If it weren t for this reporting, we d have a very different account of what went down in that church on Wednesday, which is just one more reason not to trust a word that comes out of Donald Trump s mouth.Featured image via video screen capture from Twitter