Last time I checked, the Constitution still says declaring war is Congress job.As a former lawyer and judge, one would think Jeanine Pirro would know what the Constitution says, but during an appearance on Fox & Friends on Friday morning, she demonstrated why she should never have been allowed to be in the legal profession.In response to the devastating terrorist attack in Nice, France in which 84 people have been confirmed dead and 2020 injured, Pirro trotted out the Republican talking-point of blaming President Obama for the attack and claimed that he apologizes for America and persecutes Christians.
If this President would stop apologizing for what we do and what we are and stop saying you Christians, it s your turn as he did at a prayer breakfast then maybe American would be united in a way that we understand that they re coming.
They re here.
I gotta tell ya.
I m as aggravated as everyone who has sat in this chair today.
We ve got a problem at the top of this country, Pirro continued before summing President Obama s legacy as weak.
One word: Weak, she said.
He just doesn t have a plan.
He doesn t have a policy.
He should be in academia.
We ve got to declare war on them.
We ve got to start having a conversation about surveillance on mosques they just want to kill us!
Here s the video via YouTube:President Obama has never apologized for America.
Nowhere is this clearer than when he visited Hiroshima, Japan and refused to apologize for the United States dropping the atomic bomb during World War II.
President Obama is also not persecuting Christians.
His policies include all Americans and do not target a specific religious sect.Furthermore, President Obama has done the best he can to fight ISIS with the authority and resources he has available and that has resulted in 26,000 ISIS fighters and half of their commanders being killed by United States and coalition forces.And if Pirro really wants to blame someone for being weak against ISIS, she should point her finger at Republicans in Congress who refuse to exercise their power to declare war on ISIS, which would give President Obama the full power to wage war against ISIS.
But Republicans don t want to do that because they would rather put all the responsibility on President Obama so they can continue blaming him for each and every terrorist attack that occurs around the world for cheap political points.Just so Pirro and every other conservative out there understands what the separation of powers means, here s the part of the Constitution you are blatantly ignoring.
Because it s either that or you ve never actually read the document you claim to love so much.Article I, Section 8: To declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning captures on land and water.Seriously, Republicans need to grow a pair and do their jobs if they really believe ISIS is a major threat to our country.
If not, they should shut the hell up and stop attacking the only man in our government who is doing something.Featured Image: Screenshot