Every single time Donald Trump makes an absurd statement, his supporters rush in to explain what the president-elect really meant.
This country will be led by a man who doesn t know how to communicate.
According to a member of the transition team, Trump should be taken symbolically, not literally.
Well, that s just great.MSNBC host Stephanie Ruhle pressed aide Anthony Scaramucci on why Trump hasn t held a news conference since July 27th and the president-elect canceled one scheduled for December 15th.Scaramucci suggested that Trump canceled the news conference because he s a very precise, very detail-oriented guy who wants to have all of the answers to all of the types of questions that s he s gonna get thrown, according to Politico.
Hold on.
If he s a detail-oriented guy, then how does this statement that we ve been hearing for months don t take him literally, take him seriously make sense?
Ruhle asked.
Because that s sort of the opposite.
Then Scaramucci blamed the media.
You should definitely take him seriously because he s a man of his word, but I do think that some of the things that happens with the media is when he s sending out tweets or he s speaking in a certain way that sets the hair on fire of the nation s media particularly the left-leaning media I think his supporters see that more as symbolism and a rejection of sort of that egg and tomato throwing that he s experienced from June of 2015 when he announced his campaign, he said.Scaramucci said some people out there that do get a little crazy with the president-elect.
Well, if he d stop putting terrifying creatures in that swamp, maybe people would calm down a little.
Just a suggestion.Ruhle shot back saying that Trump puts information out there but doesn t answer questions.Trump is the most scrutinized person in the world, Scaramucci said.
And so [as] a result of which, when that press conference comes, my guess is he s gonna have nine and 10 derivative-like questions, and he just wants to be ready for it.
And that s why he delayed it, which I think is a sign of his great temperament and very good judgment.
Watch: If that were true, Trump would be able to refrain from attacking people on Twitter.
That does not display a great temperament or good judgement.
His own aide is suggesting that Trump isn t prepared for the job.
And if we take Trump symbolically, that kind of sucks, too.
He s the hero of every white supremacist group across the board.Image via screen capture.