Carl Paladino, who served as the co-chairman of Donald Trump s New York campaign, wrote a wish list of what he d like for the New Year.
He wished death and beastiality upon President Obama and wanted the First Lady to be let loose in Africa to live with a gorilla.
Paladino also serves as a Buffalo School Board member and people have been calling for him to resign over his racist attack on the Obamas.
I was wired up, primed to be human and make a mistake, he wrote in a statement obtained by WBEN.
I could not have made a worse choice in the words I used to express my feelings.
And that s where he should have stopped but unfortunately, he didn t:Even as Paladino apologized for hurting the minority community with his racist remarks, he took shots at the attacking parasites, vanquished progressive haters, and mean spirited disoriented press [sic] who took issue with his comments.
He also called Obama a yellow-bellied coward and lazy ass president.
I certainly am not a racist, he insisted, then stated, No, I m not leaving the school board.
He said he made a mistake then he blamed the media.Paladino also said the survey answers were accidentally sent to Artvoice.
I filled out the survey to send to a couple friends and forwarded it to them not realizing that I didn t hit forward I hit reply, he said.
All men make mistakes.
In other words, he didn t mean to get caught being a racist.In the survey, Paladino wrote that he hopes Obama catches mad cow disease after being caught having relations with a Herford.
He added that he wishes [Obama] dies before his trial and is buried in a cow pasture next to Valerie Jarret [sic], who died weeks prior, after being convicted of sedition and treason, when a Jihady [sic] cell mate [sic] mistook her for being a nice person and decapitated her.
As for Mrs. Obama, he said he would like her to return to being a male and let loose in the outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with Maxie, the gorilla.
Yes, you are a racist, Mr. Paladino.
Put your big boy pants on and own your words instead of attacking the media for reporting it.Photo by Audrey C. Tiernan-Pool/Getty