After getting crushed in the 2012 election, the Republican Party realized that they needed to appeal to more than just old angry white men.
But they didn t do that.
Instead, they doubled down on anti-Latino sentiment.
Then they tripled down.
Then they played their Trump card and that was the end of the GOP s Latino outreach.
Now, Pew Research Center has released a study that confirms the Republican Party is doomed.
Not only is the fastest growing group of voters Latino, Millennials (who already dislike the GOP intensely) make up the fastest growing segment within that already critical demographic.In other words, the people the least likely to vote for Republicans are going to be one of the most powerful voting blocks in just a few years.
Just to make it a little more clear, here s what the growth of Latino voters looks like by the millions:And almost half of them are Millennials.
If I were a Republican, this graph would make me wake up screaming every night.
It s like the Grim Reaper showed up on my doorstep and said, Hola, Gringo!
I d feel bad for the GOP but they really did bring it on themselves.
A few years ago, they MIGHT have been able to appeal to Latino voters.
But the last two years have seen a repeat of the exact same short-sighted stupidity that drove the black community away from voting Republican for the last 50 years.
Trump sped up the process considerably but it was already happening.
You cannot tell an entire group of people that you hate their very existence and then be surprised when they vote against you.Republicans have painted themselves into a corner with no chance of escape.
In order to rally their aging base, they demonized Latinos by pretending immigration was an existential threat of America.
They were so successful in this that they cannot, in any way, appeal to Latinos without immediately alienating the old angry white people that keep them in office.
But without the Latino vote, Republicans cannot possibly continue to compete at the national level for much longer.It s the most delicious Burrito of Electoral Doom imaginable and I can t wait to dig in!Feature image via Pew Research