A Fox News host found herself squarely outnumbered on Thursday when she claimed that the conservative network covers racism fairly.The hosts of The View discussed Megyn Kelly s interview with actor and comedian D.L.
Hughley the night before.During the interview, Hughley sarcastically pointed out that Fox News does not cover racism fairly.
The only place racism doesn t exist is Fox News and the police department, Hughley said.
That s absolutely true.
Megyn Kelly called Hughley s claim insulting to which he replied, And I m insulted by the things I hear on this network, so we re even.
I could care less about insulting people that insult me on a daily basis.
Well, Fox News host Jedediah Bila disagreed with Hughley and told her View co-hosts that Fox is fair when it comes to covering racism.
I ve hosted a bunch of shows there, we talk about issues of race all the time, she claimed.
I mean, I m on with Juan Williams all the time.
These are serious issues that we delve into.
So, it felt like he was labeling the whole network as not willing to accept that racism is something that exists in this country.
To recap, it appears Bila is using the ole I m friends with a black person defense to somehow claim that Fox fairly covers racism.Shen went on to excuse other Fox hosts lack of coverage because she said they are exercising journalistic responsibility, which most objective people know is complete bullshit because Fox News doesn t give a damn about real journalism.
When you have stories coming out where you have white on black crime, before we figure out what actually happened, a lot of people in media jump to conclusions or we surmise or we guess, Bila continued.
And it shapes the narrative of how the public hears that.
And it s really hard then when facts emerge to go back and say, Oh, wait a minute, maybe in this particular case, this wasn t about racism.
A stunned Whoopi Goldberg was quick to slap back.
What shapes the narrative oftentimes is a disregard for the fact that we do have a racial issue, we do have an issue between how police are sometimes and how people of color are sometimes, and that s the discussion we don t have, Goldberg said.And even conservative host Candace Cameron-Bure, who often appears on Fox News, agreed with Goldberg that Fox does not cover racism fairly.
I watch Fox News, I m a Fox News supporter.
But I agree with you.
I don t feel like they are inclusive of all minority groups as much as they should be.
Because conservatives aren t just white rich men or women.
And Fox I don t feel always represents that point of view.
I thought Megyn Kelly was great but I really appreciated everything that D.L.
said as well.
Here s the video via YouTube.Fox News has been especially unfair to Black Lives Matter in the wake of the Dallas shooting even though it is clear that the person who murdered those five police officers was not affiliated with the movement.
Many Fox hosts have disregarded that fact and have continually demonized Black Lives Matter in a way that is inflaming racial tensions even further.
Fox would not be doing that if they had even a shred of real journalistic responsibility.Featured image via screenshot