Because getting something for nothing is all the rage with this President and the professors who spew this type of garbage to our children Earning a living is a totally foreign concept to this generation that is being taught it s better to receive than to give of one s self BEGIN TRANSCRIPTRUSH: Did you hear what Obama said?
This happened when I was away.
When this happened, when I heard about this, I almost got on the plane and flew 12 hours back here.
I could have done it on the phone but I don t trust it.Obama in his commencement speech at Howard University, do you remember what he said?
Here s what he said to the class of 2016 at Howard University: Yes, you ve worked hard, but you ve also been lucky, and that s a pet peeve of mine.
People have been successful and don t realize they ve been lucky, that God may have blessed them.
It wasn t nothing you did!
Quote/unquote, Barack Obama, right out of the Elizabeth Warren playbook.
Hey, you didn t build that!
which Obama also has said.Can you imagine telling college graduates, You ve worked hard, but you ve been lucky, and so s every other successful person out there.
They ve been lucky, and they don t realize it.
Wasn t [any]thing you did.
And that Nothing.
Nothing.
And that is how they lay the case for Big Government.
To redistribute, to make things fair, to determine equality of outcomes, because it s just luck.Dick Gephardt, the successful are winners of life s lottery.
I ll tell you, the American left, progressives, Democrats, are the greatest enemies of human greatness that we have to deal with.
They really stand in the way of individual, group, whatever, human greatness, by disparaging it, by impugning it, by denying it.
It s bad enough you think it, but to run around and send college graduates from a black university out into the world thinking that what they ve just accomplished was luck?
(sigh) That s the kind of thing, you know, you walk out of a speech, people saying things like that.
Via: Rushlimbaugh.com