The apple never falls far from the tree, and Trump s kids do everything they can to prove that saying true.
Donald Trump Jr. took a page straight out of rape culture in an interview on the Opie and Anthony Show, where he said that women who can t handle sexual harassment in the workplace don t belong in the workforce.
If you can t handle some of the basic stuff that s become a problem in the workforce today, like, you don t belong in the workforce.
Like, you should go maybe teach kindergarten.
I think it s a respectable position.You can t be negotiating billion-dollar deals if you can t handle, like, you know.
Now, why didn t anybody think of that before?
It s so stupid it s positively brilliant!Or maybe the men who are likewise negotiating that deal Trump Jr. talks about above should, you know, maybe keep their mouths shut and their eyes and minds focused on the negotiations.
But hey, Trump and his son will say what they want.
Boys will be boys, right?
Right.
Because men can t control themselves and their base instincts so it s always on women to make sure men stay off of us.And you just have to love that implication that teaching kindergarten (and by extension, teaching anything at all) isn t a real job in the workforce, so it s okay for women to have those jobs.
Trump Jr. clearly sees women as second-class citizens people to be seen and not heard (and in some cases, probably not seen, either, just like his disgusting father thinks).To make matters worse, the whole interview sounds like they think they re doing nothing more than harmless locker room talk, with the hosts saying things like: That s the problem with women.
They complain and they fuck it up.
Like I don t like being around just men, I love when women are around, but they complain, Oh it s harassment, and that s why we hate them around because they stop us from doing what we want to do.
Which is, in part, talking about women in a disgusting, derogatory manner, no doubt.
They re blaming women for having the audacity to demand to be treated like human beings.Trump s mini-me of a son also implied that the primary reason women complain and sue for harassment is to get rich: Wouldn t it be funny if we showed tits and then Donald sued?
one asked.
I d feel harassed!
Trump Jr. joked.
This is my get-rich-quick scheme.
I m now suing you guys because I feel uncomfortable.'
It s not just the GOP candidate for president.
It s his whole family who thinks this way.
Anyone who thinks that Donald Trump would be a good example, a good role model for children need only look at his own children to know that s not true.Listen to the whole interview segment below:Featured image by John Moore via Getty Images