It s undeniable that Donald Trump is a giant asshat.
His entire campaign built upon the exploitation of American conservatives racism, and faux populist rhetoric that is completely at odds with his economic policies that he has put forward.
But Trump s asshattery isn t just reserved for people he can exploit for political gain.The New York Times recently ran an article that detailed the relationship between Trump and his brother Freddy.
Trump s younger brother was an alcoholic who died at the age of 43.
Freddy s alcoholism caused a major rift to form in the two brothers relationship.
One of the most scandalous revelations in the piece is that Trump once revoked medical benefits to his nephew s sick infant son.
Trump had promised that he would pay for Fred III (Trump s nephew) child s medical care.
But a feud over an inheritance dispute devolved, that changed all of that.The New York Times reports: Then came the unveiling of Fred Sr. s will, which Donald had helped draft.
It divided the bulk of the inheritance, at least $20 million, among his children and their descendants, other than my son Fred C. Trump Jr. Freddy s children sued, claiming that an earlier version of the will had entitled them to their father s share of the estate, but that Donald and his siblings had used undue influence over their grandfather, who had dementia, to cut them out.A week later, Mr. Trump retaliated by withdrawing the medical benefits critical to his nephew s infant child.
Trump s family did not want to talk to the media about the matter.
Trump offered the New York Times an explanation for his actions during an interview, saying, I was angry because they sued.
Trump claims the whole thing was eventually settled very amicably.
Trump s villainy has officially reached daytime soap opera levels.
For sure, much of Trump s hateful antics are a campaign tactic that he is using to get free media coverage.
However, when a story like this come out, it shows that Trump actually is a terrible, vindictive person.Featured Image Credit: Gage Skidmore [CC BY-SA 3.0], via Wikimedia Commons