Unfounded claims that President Trump was filmed with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel surfaced in the closing stretch of last year s White House race.Mrs.
Clinton s presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee (DNC) reportedly helped fund the research.According to US media reports, Perkins Coie, a law firm representing the Clinton campaign and DNC, hired intelligence firm Fusion GPS in April 2016.
BBCYesterday, another bombshell was revealed by Rep. Jim Jordan on the Lou Dobbs show, when Jordan told Dobbs that he believes the FBI paid Christopher Steele, the creator of the Trump dossier and that they used it to obtain a FISA warrant to spy on Americans associated with the Trump campaign.
Jordon told Dobbs: There are a couple of fundamental questions here.
Did the FBI pay Christopher Steele?
I asked that of the Attorney General two weeks ago he wouldn t answer the question.
Did they actually vet this dossier?
Because it s been disproven, a bunch of lies, a bunch of National Enquirer garbage and fake news in this thing.
Did they actually check it out before they brought it to the FISA Court which I m convinced they did.
And all of this can be cleared up if they release the application that they took to the court I think they won t give it to us because they did pay Christopher Steele.
I think they did use the dossier as the basis for the warrants to spy on Americans associated with President Trump s campaign.
Strzok is the guy who took the dossier to the FISA Court.
Watch:Politically Corrupt FBI @Jim_Jordan: I believe the FBI paid Christopher Steele, and then used the discredited, fake news dossier to spy on @POTUS and his campaign.
#MAGA #TrumpTrain #DTS @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/bfgk37LbFC Lou Dobbs (@LouDobbs) December 8, 2017While Democrats desperately try to convince the American public that Trump colluded with the Russians to defeat one of the most unpopular candidates they ve ever stuck their party with, real journalists continue to uncover the real collusion, and it s looking more and more like sadly, it s between the FBI, Obama s DOJ and investigators working for Special Counsel Robert Mueller.This one image by cartoonist Antonio Branco, pretty much sums up who s really in charge of the phony Trump-Russian collusion sham of an investigation: