Trump has had a rough week!
We d feel sorry for him, but it s too much fun to watch karma bite him in his giant orange ass!Perhaps the best person to help with the job of taking on #GoldenShowerGate is Full Frontal s Samantha Bee, who makes Trump her bitch almost on a nightly basis.
And, Wednesday night s episode may be her best Trump mockery yet!She began her show addressing the controversy and (let s face it) DISGUSTING reports surrounding Cheeto Hitler this week, with a segment she titled: People Are Saying: Trump Likes Pee.
After a heartfelt summary of Obama s emotional Farwell Speech she exclaims, Here come the waterworks!
And, in pure Sam Bee style, transitions right into the number one business at hand.
(pun intended.)
And you know Speaking of waterworks!
HALLELUJAH!
It s comedy Christmas!
Bee then shows a clip reporting the news of BuzzFeed s article in which they released a dossier collected by British intelligence which claims that on a trip to Russia, Trump paid prostitutes to pee on a bed in front of him a bed once slept on by President Obama and the first lady.
Oh, bullshit!
Bee exclaims.
We re supposed to believe Trump is paying people who do work for him?
She goes on to note that while this could be plausible bullshit about Trump, no one would ever believe Obama would ever pay anyone to do this, because in fact, people (congress) have been peeing on him for free for years.
Bee continues: In fact, if we believe something nasty and petty is what gets Trump hard, then his late night tweets to Alec Baldwin make a lot more sense.
Bee goes on to summarize the events of the past couple of days in pure hilarity and ultimately concludes that #GoldenShowerGate is a good distraction from the reality of what we should actually be concerned about, which are the reports regarding Trump s alleged illegal ties to Russia.
She then ends the segment with one of the best lines ever: A spoon full of hooker urine helps the treason claims go down.
Watch the full video below:Featured image via video screenshot