It s not surprising that Donald Trump would pay his female staffers less than his male staffers.
He s sexist, so that s to be expected.
What is surprising, though, is just how bad it is.
On average, in the U.S., women are paid about $.79 for every dollar men are paid, even for the same work.
Trump pays the women working on his campaign about $.65 for every dollar his male staffers make.Now, some will make the argument that we don t necessarily know what his female staffers are doing versus what his male staffers are doing.
There s a possibility, those people would say, that the men are getting paid more because they all hold higher, more difficult positions, or they work more hours, or they do better work in general, or all of the above.That s still blatantly sexist.For April, the women on Trump s staff earned about $4,500, while the men earned about $6,100.
That s a 35 percent difference, which is egregious, even for him.
Supposedly, he believes in equal pay, but says it s too complicated an issue for legislation.
Too much can go into whether men and women are really doing the same job or not, he says.So, what, we re supposed to assume that he s paying all his staffers exactly in accordance with the jobs they do, and how well they do them?
Please.Whichever way we look at this, Trump s campaign is set up in a traditionally sexist manner, which is at odds with his assertions that he ll be so good for women (and black people, and Latinos, etc.)
once he s elected.
That, in and of itself, is laughable considering how badly he treats women, and some of the misogynistic comments he s made about women.
For him to make that claim while allowing a pay gap that s much worse than even the national gender pay gap is ridiculous.Compare all of that to how Hillary Clinton is treating her staff, and the differences are stark.
Of the 15 highest-paid staffers on her campaign, eight were men and seven were women in April.
Men earned about $3,760, while women earned about $3,710.
There s still a gap there, but it s extremely thin.
When it comes to women s equality, Hillary knows she has to set an example with how she runs her campaign.Trump loves talking big.
That s his whole game talk big, do what he wants even if it makes him a huge hypocrite.
But since he thinks letting women work is a bad idea anyway, then maybe he s not such a hypocrite.
Just a disgusting, sexist prick.Featured image by Spencer Platt/Getty Images