Wow!
Poor Kathy Griffin The toxic comedian found herself facing a tsunami-sized backlash after she held a severed, and bloodied head of President Trump, during a comedy skit earlier in the year.
And now, the former funny girl is telling anyone who will listen, that she s furious no one wants to hire her.
Kathy Griffin starts her homemade 5-minute video by whining to viewers about all of the online hate by trolls that she s receiving.
Griffin then goes on to trash the other not funny comedian Lena Dunham, who wrote about sexually assaulting her little sister, for defending a Hollywood actor who s been accused of sexually assaulting a female actress.
Her comments that follow the Dunham remarks make no sense, although she seems to be attempting to make the point that the equally trashy liberal comedian, Lena Dunham, is still getting work, and how Griffin just doesn t think that it s fair.
(After all, Dunham hates Trump as much as her right?
)Griffin tells the camera that appears to be set up in her living room, I just want you guys to know that I am fully in the middle of a blacklist like I m in the middle of a Hollywood blacklist.
It is real.
I m not booked on any talk shows.
Griffen continued to whine about her lack of jobs, I just want you guys to know, that when I get home, I do not have one single day of paid work in front of me, and the people who want me to go back and do clubs and do 10 minutes again I don t mean to be an asshole, but I m not gonna do that.
I ve worked way too hard to go back and work for free, and do the club scene again because this is some bullshit.
Because I ve been blacklisted.Griffin then goes on to tell her fellow Hollywood libs to stop sending her requests for donations to their fundraisers because she doesn t have any money.
She goes on to explain that she s spent all of her money on lawyers because she believes in something.
Griffin can t quite find a way to articulate what that something is, but she s apparently learned her lesson and has refrained from exposing her true obsession and desire, which was to destroy Donald Trump.Watch: