Sarah Palin s horrific word salad of an endorsement of Donald Trump on Tuesday evening didn t make sense in any language resembling English, but a viral Vine video puts Palin s praise in the only context where it works: In the mouth of Iggy Azalea.In the video from Lindsey Bieda entitled Iggy s freestyle has gotten quite a bit weaker, the words from Azalea s rap breakdown have been replaced by audio of Palin from the Trump announcement.Instead of the Australia-born Azalea s Fancy, we hear Palin s eardrum piercing rhyme: Right wingin , bitter clingin , proud clingers of our guns, our god, and our religions.
In case you feel like the creator of the Vine took poor Palin out of context, this is the entire paragraph from that section of the speech, which would probably make the most epic rap video in history if it received the same treatment:Well, and then, funny, ha ha, not funny, but now, what they re doing is wailing, well, Trump and his, uh, uh, uh, Trumpeters, they re not conservative enough.
Oh my goodness gracious.
What the heck would the establishment know about conservatism?
Tell me, is this conservative?
GOP majorities handing over a blank check to fund Obamacare and Planned Parenthood and illegal immigration that competes for your jobs, and turning safety nets into hammocks, and all these new Democrat voters that are going to be coming on over border as we keep the borders open, and bequeathing our children millions in new debt, and refusing to fight back for our solvency, and our sovereignty, even though that s why we elected them and sent them as a majority to DC.
No!
If they re not willing to do that, then how are they to tell us that we re not conservative enough in order to be able to make these changes in America that we know need to be Now they re concerned about this ideological purity?
Give me a break!
Who are they to say that?
Oh tell somebody like, Phyllis Schlafly, she is the Republican, conservative movement icon and hero and a Trump supporter.
Tell her she s not conservative.
How bout the rest of us?
Right wingin , bitter clingin , proud clingers of our guns, our god, and our religions, and our Constitution.
Tell us that we re not red enough?
Yeah, coming from the establishment.
Right.Got that?At least with the Azalea video you don t have to watch Trump off to the side, leering as he watches the grotesque display go on and on and on.Featured image via YouTube/Vine