Senator Chuck Schumer ( D- NY) is furious with Ted Cruz, and with good reason.
Like many Republicans, Cruz has helped circle the wagons in the wake of the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, and has promised to block anyone President Obama might appoint.
Of course, all of those extremist windbags on the right want another far-right nut like Antonin Scalia on the Court but there s a catch.
President Obama has every right to nominate a person of his choosing, which will ensure a Supreme Court with liberal leanings.
The GOP-controlled Senate, however, will do all they can to make sure that doesn t happen, though, and they have said so openly, thus leading to Sen. Schumer s fury.Appearing on This Week on Sunday morning, the Senator laid into Cruz s plans: Well, the job, first and foremost, is for the president to nominate and for the Senate to hold hearings and go through the process.
You know, the Constitution, Ted Cruz holds the Constitution when he walks through the halls of Congress.
Let him show me the clause that says president s only president for three years.
After making his point about Cruz, Schumer then turned his attentions to Mitch McConnell s obstructionism.
You know, the kind of obstructionism that Mitch McConnell s talking about, he s harking back to his old days, you know, he recently he said, well, I want regular order.
But in 2010, right after the election or right during the election, he said, My number one job is to defeat Barack Obama, without even knowing what Barack Obama was going to propose.
Here, he doesn t even know who the president s going to propose and he said, no, we re not having hearings, we re not going to go forward to lead the Supreme Court vacant at 300 days in a divided time.
This kind of obstructionism isn t going to last.
And you know, we Democrats didn t do this.
We voted 97-0 for Justice Kennedy in the last year of Reagan s term.
I think first the American people don t like this obstruction.
When you go right off the bat and say, I don t care who he nominates, I am going to oppose him, that s not going to fly.
Indeed it s not going to fly.
These people hate the sitting President so much that they are willing to leave a vacant seat on the court before they let anyone he might nominate through.
Senator Schumer is right no reasonable American would go for this.
Let Cruz and the rest of the GOP hang themselves with this one, though.
It will only be a matter of time.Watch the clip below, as posted to Twitter by ABC:WATCH: @SenSchumer to @tedcruz: Show me the clause that says the president is only president for three years.
https://t.co/YJdZr3ZDTM This Week (@ThisWeekABC) February 14, 2016Featured image from video screen capture via Raw Story