D Ann Loop of Brownsville, Texas lost much of her land ten years ago when the Bush administration decided to put up a border fence that stretched across what used to be much of her property.Loop and her husband found themselves effectively locked out of the United States, as even their home ended up on the Mexico side of the fence.
Their only access is a locked gate.The couple fought to keep their land and lost in court, placing all of their property on the southern side of the fence and their nightmare is about to become very real for potentially thousands of people.You see, recently Texans along the border learned that The Donald was forcing them out of their homes for much less than they are worth.
If they choose to stay in their homes, some of them have discovered they will soon be living among the criminal hordes down south.
I was very angry, I just kept saying, how can they do that?
How is that possible in the United States that they can do this?
Loop says.
They put up a fence in front of our land and then keep us in here lock us in.
I didn t understand.
I was very I was floored and flabbergasted.
You hear that, folks?
Floored and flabbergasted.
It left us no property on the U.S. side of the border wall, including my house, she says.
Everything was behind on the Mexican side of the U.S. border fence.
You punch your code in or you come behind the border wall, there is a feeling of isolation, her husband, Ray Loop, added.Thousands of land owners Trump voters and otherwise along the Texas border will soon find themselves suffering buyer s remorse for the snake oil they purchased from our huckster-in-chief.Trump voter Pat Bell was fine with The Donald until she learned that his stupid wall placed her in danger of living like the Loops.
While she opposed the wall because fences and walls don t work (she was fine with the other hatred espoused by Trump and his supporters, of course), she is finding herself negatively impacted by Mr. 45 s policies.
Absolutely I would go to the people who are in charge and, you hate to say I would get a lawyer, but if it comes to that issue, you would, she says.Trump voters are perfectly fine with banning an entire religion from entering the country and building a wall to keep all those dirty brown rapists to the south from entering the country even gutting social programs but the second Trump s terrible policies begin to affect them, they will cry about how unfair their lives are.Watch a report on the Loops predicament below:Featured image via screengrab