Donald Trump is now the president-elect, and he has shown no sign that he has any intention of doing as he says in trying to heal the nation s deep divides over issues of race, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, religion, or anything else.
Indeed, he has thus far picked clearly bigoted cabinet members that will do anything but heal us.
Therefore, when Trump s vice president-elect Mike Pence showed up to see the popular Broadway musical Hamilton, it is no surprise that the audience booed him.
Even more humiliating for Pence, though, is the fact that the extremely diverse cast had a very pointed message for him regarding his and Donald Trump s ability to represent ALL Americans, and not just the privileged few who look, worship, and think the way they do.After the performance, one of the stars of the show, Brandon Victor Dixon, who acted as a spokesman for the cast thanked Pence for coming to the show, went on to give an inspiring speech urging Pence to remember the many shades of the American rainbow.
Dixon reminded Pence of his responsibility to represent every single person in the nation, and to stand up for the rights of all.
The speech was not mean-spirited or vindictive, but it was absolutely what Pence needed to hear.
Unfortunately, though, knowing Mike Pence, it all went in one ear and out the other, and simply served to make him even more vindictive and hateful than he already is.
Dixon said to Pence: Thank you for joining us at Hamilton: An American Musical.
We are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us, our planet, our children, our parents, or defend us and uphold our inalienable rights.
We hope this show has inspired you to uphold our American values, and work on behalf of ALL of us.
Thank you.
Without further ado, here is the amazing video, captured by a Twitter user who was in attendance at the show:Amazing night.
#hamiltonmusical #MikePence pic.twitter.com/hFhFY1DNae John Bluemke (@JGBluemke) November 19, 2016Of course, the Trump/Pence supporters and transition team will simply brush aside any accusations of bigotry as professional protesters causing trouble, but people who value the melting pot of diversity that is America will know that what was said here is exactly what Donald Trump, Mike Pence, and the rest of the Republican Party need to hear and heed.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images