A right-wing activist secretly spying on a Democratic senate campaign was exposed.
The caper was exposed by quick thinking volunteers working for Russ Feingold s U.S. Senate campaign in Wisconsin who were suspicious of a blonde woman with a pickup truck that apparently gave them a fake name.
Via The Huffington Post:The woman, who identified herself as Allison Moss, told Feingold staffers that she had been active in College Democrats at the University of Minnesota and wanted to get involved in the campaign.
She also signed a nondisclosure agreement with the campaign under the same name.But after a Feingold staffer began pressing Moss on some of her past work, her backstory started unraveling.
The staffer said someone on the campaign had gone to the University of Minnesota and remembered Moss as a member of the College Republicans.
Moss denied being involved.
They also asked her whether she worked for the right-wing group Campus Reform and whether she gave a false name on her nondisclosure agreement.The Huffington Post goes on to report that in audio of a question and answer session with the woman she was nervous and evasive, giving answers that certainly aren t typical of the usual enthusiastic political volunteer.
The outlet said the woman actually appears to be Allison Maass, a correspondent for the right-wing site Campus Reform, which has been the source of a steady stream of right-wing stories about liberal college life.Maas also reportedly was caught earlier in the year in an attempt to entrap volunteers for Hillary Clinton presidential campaign in a scheme that would have claimed the campaign was accepting illegal donations.Campus Reform is part of the Leadership Institute, the right wing incubator that trains conservative activists, including video hoaxster James O Keefe who worked with the Breitbart site and Fox News to attack the community service group ACORN.
O Keefe s techniques were also used in order to attack Planned Parenthood with deceptively edited videos that claimed the organization sold baby parts.
Featured image via screen capture