Conservative actor Rob Lowe has somehow managed to continue working in an industry ruled by radical leftist activists who are notorious for punishing anyone with an opposing view.
We commend Lowe for taking a stand on 9-11 against these multi-millionaire athletes who feel the need to disrespect our national anthem as a way to protest their oppression and disdain for our law enforcement officers.
Rob Lowe had a request for the NFL on Saturday night concerning the recent protests by some players over the national anthem.During the preseason, San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand for the national anthem before games in which his team played, saying his actions were a protest against the oppression of minorities in America.
I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, Kaepernick told reporters.
His protest relates to videos showing unarmed African-Americans around the country being fatally shot by white police officers.Kaepernick s jersey has since become the best-selling in the NFL, which has been attributed to both supporters of his cause and those he has upset, some of whom have shared videos burning the jersey.
Via Hollywood ReporterHere s Lowe s tweet and how responded to his critics:Dear @NFL Any player wants to boycott the anthem on 9/11 should be asked to remain in the locker room until kick off.
It's not their moment.
Rob Lowe (@RobLowe) September 11, 2016One follower told Lowe he didn t have to like what Kaepernick was doing, but it is his right to not stand.Other Leftists on Twitter replied in the manner in which you would expect:US troops who defend & respect our flag were fighting tonight & they won't all live through it #OppressedMillionaires 100% FED UP!
(@100PercFEDUP) September 14, 2016This is incredibly stupid and lacks analysis.
Just like a white man.
https://t.co/LUaAr0ik7d SHE (@whitspen) September 12, 2016Lowe attempts to explain that he agrees it s the constitutional right of these multi-millionaire athletes to protest their oppression, but simply asks that on 9-11 they give it a rest:how is not standing up for the anthem disrespectful to the fallen?
SMB (@SMB06) September 11, 2016Here is Lowe s response to the Tweet above:I mean I can't even.
https://t.co/1N0dCDrsIc Rob Lowe (@RobLowe) September 11, 2016South Park posted a hilarious Colin Kaepernick Anthem to Twitter, exposing the ignorance and hypocrisy of his protest against cops:Don t sit this one out!
#SouthPark returns this Wednesday on @ComedyCentral with 10 all-new episodes!
#mnf pic.twitter.com/EqEKquuf0g South Park (@SouthPark) September 13, 2016