It s being dubbed the rare boycott that actually worked.
In today s age of endless cycles of outrage and amnesia, Rush Limbaugh probably assumed that listeners would forget and forgive after, in a fit of characteristic rage, the conservative radio host called a Georgetown law student Sandra Fluke a slut on air (for the crime of using birth control, no less).
Instead, it may have finally cost Limbaugh his job.It s been four years since Limbaugh lashed out at Fluke, but the damage is finally being felt.
For one thing, his show which is still a go-to source of batshit crazy has been dropped by an ever growing list of advertisers and affiliates who, understandably, have no interest in being associated with Limbaugh s sickening brand nor care about appealing to his vicious, toxic listener.
Making matters worse, Limbaugh s $38 million a year contract is expiring and as negotiations begin, suddenly the thought of paying a man tens of millions of dollars a year to call a college student a slut doesn t seem like such a good investment.Much of this is due to David Brock and his liberal watchdog organization, Media Matters for America.
According to Politico, the company has spent over $100,000 on organizing the Limbaugh boycott that may finally take him down.The anti-Limbaugh faction came up with the social media-friendly slogan Flush Rush.
The group s efforts met considerable success in the months that followed.
Dozens of companies, including Netflix, JCPenney and Sears, announced they would boycott Limbaugh s show.
Most have yet to return.
And the increasing popularity of platforms like Twitter, which can be used to stoke outrage and promote boycotts, makes it highly unlikely they ever will.The Sandra Fluke incident did a lot of harm to talk radio, Darryl Parks says.
Thirty-eight percent of revenue disappeared overnight.
And the damage was not limited to Limbaugh; he hurt all of talk radio, including even some liberal hosts.
Certain programs Michael Savage, for example, and in an earlier era, Bob Grant had always been considered toxic by some advertisers, but after the Fluke incident, entire stations or indeed, the entire format of talk radio were deemed no-go zones by blue chip brands.Compare this boycott to those frequently half-heartedly kicked off by the right and it s easy to see why the outcome was different.
Unlike, say, the attempt to boycott Starbucks because they made their holiday cups red, the Flush Rush boycott is on firm moral ground.
What Limbaugh did, and continues to do, to the people who happen to catch his ire is pathetic and wrong.
While the color of a coffee cup might be controversial to some, listening to Limbaugh label a young woman a slut because she doesn t want to get pregnant is deeply repugnant regardless of your political leanings.Featured image via YouTube