Donald Trump has repeatedly defended his blatant calls for violence against his critics by pretending that the protesters, not his fans, are the violent ones.
This, he claims, justifies any assaults his supporters unleash at his rallies, no matter how unprovoked.Unfortunately, there is not a lot of proof that the protesters are the people starting violence.
One man who was recently sucker punched by a Trump supporter who thought he was from ISIS (he wasn t) was actually already being escorted out by police officers when he was attacked.
He had done absolutely zero harm to anyone when he was hit with an elbow coming fast from his blind spot.So lacking any real evidence, it seems that Trump s campaign now wants to instigate fights between supporters and protesters in order to prove that it s not Trump s rhetoric that is inciting violence and they were just caught on tape.At a tense rally in Tucson, Arizona, Trump s controversial campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, (who has already been accused of assaulting a reporter at a separate rally) was filmed yanking the collar of protester, and then letting the man next to him take the fall for it.
It s startling to watch, but look closely.Here is Donald Trump s campaign manager in the Tucson crowd grabbing the collar of a protester.
pic.twitter.com/JZ9RntWlHY Jacqueline Alemany (@JaxAlemany) March 19, 2016Because honesty has no meaning in Trump-land, this obvious attempt to incite a fight was flatly denied by the campaign.
They claimed the man to the left of Lewandowski was the perpetrator, a premise absurd enough to rank up there with the most audacious lies of North Korea or Soviet Russia.Back in the real world, the video clearly shows Lewandowski placing a hand on the back of the protester s shirt, grabbing a fist full of collar and yanking.
When the man turns, Lewandowski lets go and watches as the protester and the man standing next to him get into a shoving match.
He doesn t even bother to intervene.
This is what he wants.Trump s rally was attended by conservative Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who runs portions of the state like his own personal dictatorship so it s unlikely any criminal charges will be brought against Lewandowski.
However, it is worth nothing that Trump barely escaped a inciting a riot charge for his violent rally in North Carolina just two weeks ago.
The reasoning was that Trump s actions and words are whipping his followers into a violent frenzy that makes it unsafe for protesters.
Now his campaign has been caught red handed trying to say it with me incite a riot once again.This will go one of two ways: Either Trump s campaign gets charged with the crimes they are committing, or they are going to get their wish and someone gets killed.
There doesn t appear to be a lot of middle ground here.Featured image via Twitter