CNN s Alisyn Camerota did something on Wednesday that s almost unheard of from CNN: She called out Donald Trump on his many, many scandals and in particular, the pay and play scandal involving Trump s bribing of Florida s Republican Attorney General Pam Bondi, who, after receiving a donation from Trump, dropped an investigation into Trump University.This isn t an allegation.
Trump paid the donation, and he paid an IRS fine of $2,500 for breaking the law.
Still, the media generally only talks about the Clinton Foundation or Clinton emails, both of which have amounted to absolutely nothing.Trump s entire narrative, when it comes to Hillary Clinton, is to paint her as crooked Hillary, a moniker that, despite sounding like it comes from a third grade bully who s been held back a few times, is sticking.
That nickname is pure projection, though.
It s Trump who s crooked and Camerota pointed it out: Congressman, Camerota said, don t you think the American public cares about breaking the law?
Well, these are technicalities in many cases, (Rep. Chris Collins R-NY) Collins said, as he pointed out on the recent Bondi one.
He was solicited for a donation, he told his clerk to do it.
She wrote it out of the wrong checking account.
Source: Raw StoryThen, back to crooked Hillary, Collins tried to make the claim that she did it too, which is completely untrue, since while some donors to the Clinton Foundation did ask for meetings, most were told to go through regular channels.
With Trump and Bondi, however, it was clear quid pro quo.
He gave her money and she dropped the case against him.
For that, both parties should be in jail.Camerota pressed on: Let s look back, she said, pointing out that in 1985, Trump was caught exceeding legal campaign donation limits by funneling funds through 18 subsidiary companies, which is technically legal, but is essentially a corporate version of the crime that sent right-wing provocateur Dinesh D Souza to federal prison.Cameron went on to describe actual illegalities that Trump has been fined for.
Isn t this the very definition of payola?
Camerota asked.
Payola is the practice of bribing someone to use their influence to promote your particular interest.
How does this differ?
Collins kept on with his both sides do it argument until Camerota astutely mentioned the one key difference: what Trump did was illegal.
What Clinton did wasn t. Who s the crooked candidate again?Here s the interview:GOP Rep. Chris Collins says Clinton has always been someone with her hand out for donors https://t.co/dH2DDZP72k pic.twitter.com/YuxTgFpbcm CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) September 7, 2016If only we could get the rest of the media, or for what that s worth, the rest of CNN, to do their jobs.
If you notice, even the tweet from CNN tried to make Clinton the criminal subject of the interview, not Trump.
In other words, don t hold your breath for a better CNN, but Camerota was a breath of fresh air.Featured image via video screen capture.