Right-wing pundits on Fox and Friends this week went on a little tirade about the rules of Twitter and how unfair they are to conservatives.
Host Clayton Morris joined National Review writer Katherine Timf in shredding Twitter s Abusive Behavior Policy, designed to keep people from bullying others on the internet.
The problem the conservatives have with the rule isn t that you could be suspended or banned from Twitter for a few malicious reports it s that there isn t enough distinction between them and ISIS terrorists.Yes, really.
Conservatives are concerned that because the policy doesn t specifically mention ISIS that a bunch of other extremist loudmouths with violent agendas and histories may be targeted and removed from Twitter.
They don t argue the point at all from the perspective that there s no reason to compare right-wing American patriots to terrorists because to suggest such a thing would be as ludicrous as any claim ever made about anything.
Ever.Right-wingers are brash, crass, low-information degenerates.
Occasionally you come across a right-winger with an intelligence level worthy of a game of Connect Four, but nothing you d consider the upper middle class to wealthy American they vote to please.
They are led by their puppet masters on missions to free the world from the tyrannical rule of Barack Obama, the evils of Islam and atheism, and plain red Christmas cups.
They have no argument because the facts the party that rules them feeds them are fabrications and fear tactics.If right-wingers don t like the fact that they have an extremist problem and that their own kind become radicalized and commit unimaginable acts of terror, they should do something about their own message.
You can t have people running around vowing to die for their country when their country needs them to just stay home and count their rounds of ammo.Nobody wants that kind of person near them, which extends to our online persona.
When a right-winger takes to social media and promises some libtard 180 grains of Chris Kyle-like justice, they ve just broken the rules and committed a crime, all at the same time.They shouldn t be kicked off of Twitter why?
Enough of those people together in groups become what terrorist organizations call cells.
Here in America, we call them militias.
Twitter is said to have deleted 44,000 accounts associated with ISIS.
Right-wingers should be happy they aren t just denied access on general principle.Watch Fox and cronies bash Twitter for having rules about being decent human beings below:Featured image via liberalplanet.com