Donald Trump tried to take credit for Fiat Chrysler s announcement that they will be creating 2,000 jobs in the United States.
Fiat Chrysler called out his bullshit.On Monday morning, Trump posted on Twitter that Fiat Chrysler announced the creation of 2,000 jobs and a $1 billion investment in new factories in Michigan and Ohio and appeared to suggest that he is responsible for making it happen.It s finally happening Fiat Chrysler just announced plans to invest $1BILLION in Michigan and Ohio plants, adding 2000 jobs.
This after Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Ford said last week that it will expand in Michigan and U.S. instead of building a BILLION dollar plant in Mexico.
Thank you Ford & Fiat C!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017But as usual, Trump is trying to make himself look like a middle class hero by taking credit for something that he had nothing to do with.As it turns out, Fiat Chrysler had this plan in the works long before Election Day when they announced it a year ago because they noticed a demand for more trucks and SUVs in the United States.According to ThinkProgress,The company started following through in July of last year.
It announced at that time that it would invest more than $1 billion in plants in Illinois and Ohio, adding new 1,000 jobs; and $1.5 billion in a Michigan plant, adding 700 jobs.Monday s announcement, therefore, is the second phase in this process and a confirmation of these ongoing plans , [c]onsistent and combined with previously announced investments, as the company put it.
This plan was in the works back in 2015, Jodi Tinson, a spokeswoman for FCA, told ThinkProgress.
This announcement was just final confirmation.
When asked directly if it was true that politics and the election had no influence on the announcement, she said, Correct.
Furthermore, if any president can take credit for this it s President Obama, who oversaw the bailout of the U.S. auto industry that included Fiat teaming up with the United Auto Workers and both the Canadian and American government to co-own Chrysler to rescue the company after it declared bankruptcy in 2009.Since then, Fiat built the company back up and bought out the UAW and U.S.-Canadian partners to gain sole ownership in 2014 after investing $9.6 billion in American facilities while creating 25,000 jobs since 2009.So Trump is taking credit for an accomplishment by Fiat that was made possible under President Obama s guidance and leadership at a time when the auto industry in this country was set to collapse because of economic policies Republicans had pursued for decades, the same policies Trump wants to bring back.And you can bet that Trump won t be taking credit when industries start to fail under his incompetent administration.
He ll be blaming everyone and anything but himself as usual.Featured Image: Steve Pope/Getty Images