ESPN just made an amazing stand against bigotry on the airwaves, by firing one of it s top name hosts for being anti-transgender.
Curt Schilling just got handed his pink slip.Schilling has worked for the network since 2010 and is one of baseball s best-known commentators and analysts.
But recently, Schilling decided to share a Facebook post in support of an antitransgender bill passed in North Carolina.The post insisted of an image, featuring a man in a wig, his T-shirt cut to expose breasts, and a bizarre black outfit of women s clothing.
The image was accompanied by text which read: LET HIM IN!
to the restroom with your daughter or else you re a narrow-minded, judgmental, unloving racist bigot who needs to die.
Former player Schilling then added: A man is a man no matter what they call themselves.
I don t care what they are, who they sleep with, men s room was designed for the penis, women s not so much.
Now you need laws telling us differently?
Pathetic.
ESPN later issued a statement claiming Schilling s unacceptable conduct violated their policy of inclusiveness: ESPN is an inclusive company.
Curt Schilling has been advised that his conduct was unacceptable and his employment with ESPN has been terminated.
Of course, for those in conservative circles, this was another attack of political correctness which prejudices conservatives from exercising their rights of free speech.
According to David Hookstead at The Daily Caller, Schilling s firing was part of some exodus of conservative media pundits:The former Red Sox pitcher has been very open about his conservative views in the past.
He was previously suspended by ESPN for comparing ISIS to the Nazis.ESPN might have no problem getting rid of conservative pundits, but the network has tolerated extreme liberal positions in the past without firing anybody.
ESPN employee Tony Kornheiser compared the Tea Party to ISIS and insinuated the Tea Party was attempting to establish a caliphate.
Kornheiser is still cashing pay checks from ESPN.What Hookstead leaves out is that the Tea Party is a billionaire-backed political movement with the express goal of creating a theocracy in the United States that is federal and state law based on biblical law.
On top of this, the vast majority of domestic terrorism in the US comes from white supremacists and Christian zealots.
These groups have murdered LGBT people for being gay who have lynched non-whites and non-Christians.
It is entirely comparable.However, using a caricature of a cross-dresser to invoke fear about transgender people using the gender identity appropriate bathroom is plain bigotry.
One could just as readily argue the opposite, as transmen did en masse with the hashtag Using the hashtag #WeJustNeedToPee.
Bearded transmen posted pictures of themselves in the women s bathroom, next to women entering cubicles and doing their makeup.Michael Hughes, from Minnesota, posted the picture below, asking: Do I look like I belong in a women s bathroom?Under the North Carolina law, Michael would be legally-compelled to use the women s bathrooms despite the fact that he would clearly cause some degree of confusion and worry by doing so.Surely the long term answer is to remove the gender apartheid from toilets altogether?
Plenty of countries around the world do just fine using mixed bathrooms.
Why not us?
Featured image via Twitter/Facebook