When Trump insulted John McCain for having been captured in Vietnam by saying, He s not a war hero.
He s a war hero because he was captured.
I like people who weren t captured, okay?
he insulted and hurt our entire military, and he especially hurt former POWs.
He showed no respect for the military whatsoever during that interview.Nobody, except maybe Trump, can deny that being a POW is a harrowing and very traumatic experience.
Many, many vets never recover from it, even if they have access to the best help available.
Joel Sollender, who served in the U.S. Army in WWII and was captured by the Nazis in 1944, is not thrilled with Trump at all, to put it very mildly.
This is what his experience as a prisoner of the Nazis was like: It was mainly hunger and cold, and worrying whether the Germans were going to hurt us again My war is 70 years ago, and yesterday.
Watch the whole emotional, powerful video below (and have some tissues ready):On National Prisoners of War Remembrance Day, a POW shares what it means when Trump insults veterans.
pic.twitter.com/0dVB5B0gbC Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) September 16, 2016POWs never stop fighting the war (hell, many vets in general never stop fighting the war), and Sollender s tears during this video prove that beyond doubt.
For Trump to insult John McCain because he was a POW was for him to slam a knife into the minds, hearts and souls of every POW we ve ever had.Sollender s tears, and his heartfelt statement, are why Trump ought to be ashamed of himself for what he s said and done with the military.
It s not just the statement about McCain.
It s also his comparing his sexual conquests to serving in Vietnam (really?!
), and saying being sent to a wealthy boarding school makes him feel like he served.
He repeatedly attacked a Gold Star family.
He got multiple draft deferments during Vietnam.
He thinks he can speak to what all those servicemembers experienced because he s slept around and been to a military boarding school?All of that is a hard whack across the face with a two-by-four.Someone who wants to be President of the United States has to have a lot more respect than this.
Trump has less than none it is, and always will be, about his own self-aggrandizement.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video