Everything about this muslim boy s story is a lie.
From the first lie that he made the clock to the lie about him being unfairly targeted by the school.
But in the Muslim faith, it s okay to lie (taqiya)as long as you re promoting your faith.
In Shi a Islam, taqiya ( taqiyyah/taq yah) is a form of religious veil, or a legal dispensation whereby a believing individual can deny his faith or commit otherwise illegal or blasphemous acts, especially while they are in fear or at risk of significant persecution.Our President Barack Obama brazenly supported and promoted the persecution of this poor Muslim boy:Cool clock, Ahmed.
Want to bring it to the White House?
We should inspire more kids like you to like science.
It's what makes America great.
President Obama (@POTUS44) September 16, 2015 Cool clock, Ahmed.
Want to bring it to the White House?
We should inspire more kids like you to like science.
It s what makes America great.
President Barack Obama, September 16, 2015It was a Hoax.Ahmed Mohamed s claims that he assembled a clock at home that he took to school is starting to unravel.Two investigators who have studied the image of Mohamed s device provided by Irving, Texas police have concluded that Mohamed did not make the clock.
Both conclude that Mohamed disassembled a manufactured clock and installed it in a large pencil box without its casing.
And both say it is possible it was done to provoke suspicion or to resemble a bomb.Update: Clock has been identified as being sold in a 1986 Radio Shack catalogue by an Art Voice reader.
The headline and text for this article has been changed to reflect the update.14-year-old Mohamed, a Muslim, was briefly arrested and investigated for bringing a hoax bomb to MacArthur High School in Irving, Texas on Monday.
He was subsequently cleared.Thousands of dollars have been donated to Ahmed Mohamed in just the past few days, reported CNN.
On Monday, 14-year-old Mohamed was arrested for taking a homemade clock to school that his teachers thought was a bomb.
So crowdfunding platform LaunchGood started a campaign to raise $100,000 for the Muslim teen.
In just one day, the site had raised over $10,000 from more than 200 backers.
It s hoping to raise $100,000 by October 13.
The support for it has been amazing, said Chris Abdur-Rahman Blauvelt, CEO of LaunchGood, which supports projects started by Muslims or ones that are tied to the history and study of Islam.
Blauvelt said his campaign has the approval of Mohamed s family.
He said half of the money donated will go toward a scholarship fund for Mohamed and the rest to efforts that foster creativity and inventiveness in kids.
In addition to LaunchGood, crowdfunding platform Gofundme has also launched a campaign for Mohamed.
It s raised more than $4,000 with a goal of $60,000 that will go toward Mohamed s future college tuition.
Thomas Talbot posted a video to YouTube explaining the various parts in the photo of Mohamed s briefcase clock belong to a manufactured alarm clock.
Anthony , writing at the blog Art Voice, detailed how Mohamed s device is actually a 1980s digital alarm clock sold by Radio Shack.Via: Gateway Pundit