Fun fact: While Trump press secretary Sean Spicer fielded 55 questions on February 14 related to the Flynn debacle, Obama s press secretary Jay Carney received only 13 questions from reporters on September 12, 2012, three of which were set-ups to blast Mitt Romney s criticism of the administration after the attack.
55 to 13.So as we now suffer through yet another patch of media mania, conspiracy theories, and unsubstantiated claims about how Trump hearts Russia, as well as the daily beatings endured by Spicer, let s reminisce to when the media and Obama s press flaks spun, deflected even joked about golf and Saturday Night Live!
less than a week after Benghazi.Buried deep beneath the Michael Flynn hysteria this week was Judicial Watch s release of newly obtained State Department documents related to the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012.
One email confirms again that the Obama administration knew the day after the attack it was not a random act of violence stemming from an anti-Muslim video.
That was the excuse shamefully propagated by top Obama administration officials (including the president himself) and swallowed whole by a media establishment desperate to help Obama win re-election six weeks later.According to the summary of a call on September 12, 2012 between State Department Under-Secretary Patrick Kennedy and several congressional staffers, Kennedy was asked if the attack came under cover of protest: No this was a direct breaching attack, he answered.
Kennedy also denied the attack was coordinated with the protests in Cairo over the video: Attack in Cairo was a demonstration.
There were no weapons shown or used.
A few cans of spray paint.
But of course nothing matches the audacity of trope by Obama s National Security Advisor Susan Rice on September 16, 2012.
Rice went on several Sunday shows to peddle a story she knew was completely phony, one that was already quickly unraveling even as most in the media and administration tried to keep it intact.Rice repeats the line that Benghazi attack was not premediated and was connected to the demonstrations in Cairo over the video (a document obtained by Judicial Watch last year shows Hillary Clinton met with Rice a few days before her television appearances).
Which presidential administration is fact-challenged, again?In a press gaggle on Air Force One the next day, guess how many times Deputy Press Secretary Josh Earnest was asked about Rice s comments?
Ten?
Five?
One?
Not once.
Let me repeat that.
The day after Obama s national security advisor was on five news programs to blame a terrorist attack on a YouTube video, not one reporter asked the White House about it.
I actually had to re-read the transcripts several times, even checking the date over and over, to make sure this was accurate.
Her name did not even come up.No discussion about the investigation.
No discussion about emerging evidence from around the world that Benghazi was indeed a terrorist attack.
(The only time it was mentioned was when Jen Psaki criticized Mitt Romney s comments about how the administration handled Benghazi and questioned whether he was ready for primetime.
)Here s what they did discuss: Debate prep, Occupy Wall Street, and the Chicago s teachers strike.
An actual human reporter asked this: It was a beautiful weekend for golf and he wasn t out on the course.
Is it safe to assume maybe he was doing some preparation at the White House?
WHAT?
Then they joked about football and Saturday Night Live.
The FederalistWatch here as Susan Rice intentionally lies her way around the different TV networks and Trey Gowdy blasts the double standard of our media:Here is US Ambassador to the UN, who was elevated to Obama s National Security Advisor after she lied to the media and to the American people about Benghazi protests being sparked by a video.
Watch Susan Rice explain how she has no regrets about lying about the reason for the deaths of 4 Americans in Benghazi:Watch here as Susan Rice s promotion to National Security Advisor is explained: