It appears that Trump tried everything he could think of to discredit the FBI s investigation into whether his campaign colluded with Russia prior to the Nov. 8 election.
After James Comey testified before Congress that the FBI was, indeed, looking into possible collusion between Trump s campaign and Russia, Trump began trying to pressure other intelligence chiefs to help him push back against that investigation.This is a monumental development because it means Trump was actively working to obstruct an independent investigation, and he was trying to enlist the help of other members of the intelligence community.
Daniel Coats, the director of National Intelligence at the time, and Admiral Michael Rogers, director of the NSA, were both pressured by the Trump administration to deny collusion between his campaign and Russia.They both refused because they felt the requests were inappropriate.
Both were allegedly documented in memos that could be provided to Congress and the DOJ s special counsel as evidence that Trump tried to interfere in the FBI s work.Trump had asked Comey near the end of February to drop the investigation into Michael Flynn and Russia, and later grew irate with Comey after he told Congress about the FBI s investigation.
He fired Comey on May 9, claiming first that he did it on the DOJ s recommendation, and then later that he did it on his own, and that Comey s firing had nothing to do with the Russia probe.However, it recently came out that he told Russian officials that Comey s dismissal took pressure off of him because he believed it would take pressure off the investigation.
Much of the U.S. including in and out of Congress were flabbergasted that Trump would make such an obvious move.
It was a signal that he was worried what the investigation would turn up.Bookies are starting to put odds on whether Trump will even be able to finish his term.
According to FiveThirtyEight.com, Betfair has Trump s odds of failing to serve all four years of his term at 50 percent, and they ve put the odds that he ll be out of office by the end of this year at 20 to 25 percent.Now, they re not saying that will be due to impeachment.
Trump could well resign under the pressure of these investigations and possible impeachment proceedings, just as Nixon did.
But the shoes just keep dropping for Trump, and this revelation just adds to the growing pile of evidence that he s been actively trying to obstruct justice by interfering with investigations.What does he have to hide?Silly question.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images