We re just days into experiencing the leadership skills Kellyanne Conway, Donald Trump s new campaign manager, has to offer, and so far it s a disaster.
An interview on CNN s State of the Union gave us a taste of Conway s ability to handle a little bit of grilling from the press.Before her rise to the top, Conway had called out Trump for his refusal to release his tax returns.
Dana Bash, the show s host, wasted no time bringing up the matter during the interview.
OK, now you re in charge of Donald Trump s campaign.
Given that, given how you feel, are we going to see Donald Trump s tax returns soon?
Conway, who is apparently not interested in creating any original talking points, went straight to the there s a media conspiracy against Trump line.
Conway insisted that CNN should be more concerned with covering corruption relating to the Clinton Foundation.
Which, seeing as there is no real conspiracy against Trump, they did.
Conway said: So, now that I m on the inside, I know something I didn t know then, which is he is under audit and what that means.
And, he has said very clearly, and I back him up completely, that when the audit is completed he will release the tax returns.
And let me just say something about transparency.
It comes in many different forms, Dana, as does accountability and as does truthfulness.
And we can t imagine going up against a less transparent, less accountable, more sort of rigged and corrupt individual as our political opponent than Hillary Clinton.
She s had a terrible week when it comes to being transparent and accountable.
Whether it s the revelations of the pay-for-play at the in the State Department, that I know that CNN is very much on top of and your reporting is, Dana.
As well as, as well as, the what happened at the Clinton Foundation, which is a big hot mess.
Bash responds saying: And we are talking about that for sure, but in this particular interview and these questions are about Donald Trump.
And you mentioned the audit.
According to his lawyers, the years 2002 to 2008 are no longer under audit.
So would you release those tax returns?
Conway continues to evade the question, saying: No, I would not.
And this entire tax return debate is somewhat confounding to me in the following sense.
I don t think that it creates one job, gets one more individual who does not have health insurance covered by health insurance, particularly under the disaster that has been Obamacare with these private insurers pulling out of our exchanges now and reporting billions of dollars of losses.
What I think people are most concerned about is; how would a President Trump, or how would a President Hillary, affect their tax bill?
Conway just proved that she is going to offer more of the same from the Trump campaign as we saw under the Manafort era.
Same messaging and words, just a new mouth saying them.You can watch the exchange below.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ApplceC4RtUFeatured image via video screen capture