CNN s Allison Camerota started out her interview with Democrat Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee telling her that it was being pointed out that, A whole bunch of Texas lawmakers voted against sending financial aid to the victims of Superstorm Sandy when they needed it in 2012 and 2013.
Why didn t you vote at that time to help Sandy victims?
Camerota asked.
Well, at the time, we helped Sandy victims.
The Democrats wanted more money.
We didn t get all the money we needed.
Frankly, um we did vote.
I did vote on the maximum money.
Unfortunately, it did not pass.
Why didn t you vote for H.R.
152, that was the Appropriations Act of 2013, that all sorts of Texas lawmakers voted against and you just did not vote?
Why did you skip that one?
As I said, I voted on legislation to help the Sandy Hook victims, Jackson Lee responded.
Camerota corrected her, Sandy superstorm, At the conclusion of the interview, Allison Camerota took the time to clarify that Just so that we re clear, we re talking about Superstorm Sandy, not the Sandy Hook shooting.Immediately following Camerota s clairification, Jackson Lee clarified that yes, she is complete bafoon, as she ended the interview by clarifying that she was indeed talking about the mass murder of small children in New Jersey vs. the superstorm: Let me be clear, I voted on many votes for Sandy Hook funding.
Another reporter attempted to point out that Repbulican Senator Ted Cruz voted aginst a $50 billion bill that was supposedly intended to help Sandy Superstorm victims.
Unlike dingbat Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee, Senator Cruz offered a legitimate reason for not supporting the bill that was filled with pork by legislators who weren t acting in the best interest of Sandy Superstorm victims.
The accurate thing to say is that I and a number of others enthusiastically and emphatically supported hurricane relief for Sandy, the senator told the MSNBC host.
The problem with that particular bill is it became a $50 billion bill that was filled with unrelated pork it s not right for politicians to exploit a disaster when people are hurting to pay for their own political wish list.