Ellen DeGeneres, perhaps more than anyone, has shown average Americans that LGBT people are just like other people, only in her case, a lot funnier, a better dancer and a lot nicer.
She s so nice that she rarely weighs into political issues, so for liberals, it was refreshing when she told Matt Lauer of The Today Show that she would never have Trump on her show because he s against everything that (she) stand(s) for.
The daytime talkshow host has interviewed numerous politicians on her show, including Barack and Michelle Obama, Bernie Sanders and even George W. Bush.
Obama even awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
But for Trump, she says, I m not going to change his mind, and that kills it for her.
We need to look at someone else who looks different than us and believes in something that we don t believe in and still accept them, and still let them have their rights.
It s not really personal for DeGeneres, who said she s met Trump and never had a problem with him until he began running for president.
I flew in his helicopter and did a bit with him.
So I knew him then, she told Lauer.
I have not spoken to him since he s run for president or become president, she said.Here s the video:DeGeneres came out 20 years ago.
Since then, she has gained mainstream acceptance and there s little doubt that her show and her persona have helped change Americans views on LGBT rights.She doesn t get political too often, but this isn t the first time she has spoken out against Trump.
DeGeneres was the voice of Dory in the animated Pixar film Finding Dory.
After Trump s inauguration, she noted that there were similarities between Dory and Trump s proposed border wall.
Now, of course Finding Dory is about a fish named Dory, DeGeneres said in front of a monitor displaying stills from the film.
And, Dory lives in Australia, and these are her parents, and they live in America.
And I don t know what religion they are, but her dad sounds a little Jewish doesn t matter.
Dory arrives in America with her friends Marlin and Nemo, the host continued.
She ends up at the Marine Life Institute behind a large wall.
They all have to get over the wall and you won t believe it, but that wall has almost no effect in keeping them out.
Judging from the audience s applause, they particularly enjoyed DeGeneres joke.
Even though Dory gets into America, she ends up separated from her family, but the other animals help Dory, DeGeneres began.
Animals that don t even need her.
Animals that don t even have anything in common with her.
They help her, even though they re completely different colors.
Because that s what you do when you see someone in need you help them.
Source: USA TodayLet s hope DeGeneres speaks out more in the future.
But when one of the nicest people in the world won t even welcome Trump, perhaps Trump should listen not that he would.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.