Former Maryland Gov.
Martin O Malley came out swinging at the Democratic National Convention on Wednesday.
He denounced Donald Trump as a bully and a racist who makes his followers fearful of tomorrow and feeds off of a deep-seated and dangerous anger.
I say to hell with Trump s American nightmare, O Malley said.
We believe in the American Dream.
O Malley praised Hillary Clinton and her running mate, Tim Kaine, saying they were as tough as they come.
He compared the Democratic ticket with the Republican nominee, who turns anger into a political weapon.
Anger never fed a hungry child, did it?
Anger never protected a family s home or sent a kid to college.
Anger never built a great republic, said O Malley.O Malley slammed Trump for his insistence that wages are too high, a stance the billionaire candidate did an about face on today even though he had argued vehemently against a minimum wage hike during a Republican presidential debate in November.
Wages are too high?
O Maller asked incredulously.
Really Donald?
I ll tell you what s too high.
College tuition is too high.
I ll tell you what s too high.
The cost of childcare, that s too high.
The number of American children who live in poverty, that s too high.
Donald Trump s opinion of himself way, way too high, O Malley quipped.The former governor then ripped apart Trump s ridiculous assertion that the concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese.
I ll tell you what: If the Chinese were really capable of designing some kind of diabolical farce to hurt America, they wouldn t invent global warming, he said.
They d invent Donald Trump.
O Malley then said that Trump has been a bully his whole life.
But here s what I learned on playgrounds in Catholic school: all bullies are cowards in disguise, O Malley said.
But unlike that immigrant-bashing carnival barker Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton actually knows the enduring symbol of America is not a barbed wire fence, he remarked.
It is the Statue of Liberty.
Watch Martin O Malley bash the billionaire bully at the DNC here: [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=THdw8sw3LO4]Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images