After Hillary Clinton did the unthinkable told the truth about the Trump base of support the Republicans were quick to call it her 47 percent moment.
The politically incorrect group of right-wingers were furious that Clinton wasn t being P.C., so they decided to engage in a faux outrage campaign, complete with an already made ad from the Trump campaign.Donald Trump was particularly offended by Clinton s comments, saying: The disdain Hillary Clinton expressed towards millions of decent Americans disqualifies her from public service.
Is that so?
Well, then I guess Trump should disqualify himself from being President of the United States, considering he accused 50 percent of the country of being lazy moochers just last year.In a June 2015 interview on Fox News with Sean Hannity, Trump told viewers: The problem we have right now we have a society that sits back and says we don t have to do anything.
Eventually, the 50 percent cannot carry and it s unfair to them but cannot carry the other 50 percent.
Certainly not as hyperbolic as basket of deplorables, but still reminiscent of a legitimate 47 percent moment only this time Trump bumped the number up.
Just six months earlier, in January 2015 (before he announced his candidacy) Trump told MSNBC s Kasie Hunt that, We have a tremendous amount of people in this country that don t want to work.
They have no inclination to work.
Trump also told Romney he shouldn t apologize for making the infamous comment, saying that it was correct.So Trump has gone on the record saying he thinks 50 percent of this country is comprised of lazy moochers who take from the other 50 percent (where in actuality it s the top 1 percent that take from the next 95 percent).So, insulting a faction of a right-wing extremist political electorate based on the reprehensible things they have said and believe in is wrong, but calling 50 percent of the entire country lazy and moochers isn t?
Conservatives really know who to get offended easily.What Clinton said wasn t insulting, it was the truth.
What Romney, and now Trump said, was insulting.
Spare me the outrage, Republicans.Featured image via Brian Blanco/Getty images