To think that Huma Abedin had access to top secret State Department documents is frightening.
She and her family have super shady connections to radical Muslim groups.
It s interesting that the local Muslim community would have such a controversial person in to make an appearance in Michigan.
The denial continues but the FACTS are there that prove Abedin had no business being an insider in the State Department or the White House!
As revelations broke in recent weeks regarding her role in a radical Muslim journal laced with anti-gay and anti-female comments, Huma Abedin quietly slipped in to Michigan for a visit to Dearborn Dearborn has the largest population of Muslims in America.The radical Muslim journal also employed her Mother, and was funded by the Saudis According to the Arab American News: Huma Abedin, vice chair for the Hillary for America campaign, met with Arab and Muslim American leaders on Aug. 11, to discuss issues that matter to the community.Community representatives included heads of organizations, small business owners, doctors, lawyers and other professions.
U.S. Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-Dearborn) and the retired dean of Congress, John Dingell, were also present at the discussion at Habib s Cuisine.Abedin was joined by Farooq Mitha, national director of Muslim Outreach for Hillary for America.Abedin praised the Muslim and Arab American communities for their political engagement.
She highlighted the contrasts between Clinton and Trump.She said the Republican nominee uses divisive and inflammatory rhetoric against Muslims to divide our country, while Clinton embraces the values and contributions immigrants make to our country.IF SHE S CALLING MAKE AMERICA SAFE AGAIN divisive and inflammatory rhetoric then so be it!
There is nothing wrong with making America safe from terrorists and those who don t hold our beliefs.
Abedin praised the patriotism and heroism of Muslims across the country, including the Khan family, a Muslim Gold Star family whose son, Captain Humayun Khan, was killed in Iraq while protecting his fellow service members.THE TRUTH ON THE KHAN FAMILY THAT HUMA ABEDIN CLAIMS EMBRACE OUR VALUES:HILLARY S KHAN MAN : Who Is KHIZR KHAN?
The SHOCKING Truth About His Job, His Ties To Hillary, Saudi Arabia And The Muslim BrotherhoodAbedin also discussed ways to strengthen communities, including making college more affordable (WHO PAYS FOR THIS?)
, ensuring small businesses have the resources and support needed to succeed and building an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top (REDISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH DOESN T WORK!
WE VE HAD 8 YEARS WITH OBAMA!
).Abedin answered individual questions from the audience.
Abedin s publication is full of controversial statements.According to the New York Post: Headlined Women s Rights Are Islamic Rights, a 1996 article argues that single moms, working moms and gay couples with children should not be recognized as families In a separate January 1996 article, Abedin s mother who was the Muslim World League s delegate to the UN conference wrote that Clinton and other speakers were advancing a very aggressive and radically feminist agenda that was un-Islamic and wrong because it focused on empowering women She seemed to rationalize domestic abuse as a result of the stress and frustrations that men encounter in their daily lives.
While denouncing such violence, she didn t think it did much good to punish men for it.
Via: WMP