George Lopez was hired to be the emcee for the Children s Diabetes Foundation s Carousel Ball.
Lopez thought it would be a good idea to turn what should have been an event to help sick children into an opportunity to express his hate for President Trump and his supporters.
Bad idea Here s the promotion for Lopez from the Children s Diabetes Foundation on Twitter:We are excited to announce that commedian & acotor @georgelopez will be the emcee for this year's #CarouselBall!
https://t.co/cO9eHKviPO pic.twitter.com/aCpAI9F22a CDF (@CDFdiabetes) September 21, 2017Comic George Lopez was booed off stage at a gala for juvenile diabetes in Denver last week, over an anti-Donald Trump routine that fell flat with the crowd.We re told the flap began when Trump backer and Liberty Media CEO Greg Maffei donated $250,000 but requested that Lopez cool it with the anti-Trump jokes at the Carousel Ball.An attendee at the event where tables sold from $5,000 to $100,000 to benefit the Barbara Davis Center for Diabetes commented on a YouTube video that George was asked nicely to stop making Trump jokes by a man in front row [Maffei] who just donated $250K.
But George doesn t, continues.
Gets booed.
We re told that Lopez responded to Maffei, Thank you for changing my opinion on old white men, but it doesn t change the way I feel about orange men.
Trying to recover and sensing the audience turn, Lopez said, Listen, it s about the kids .
.
.
I apologize for bringing politics to an event.
This is America it still is.
So I apologize to your white privilege.
We re told Lopez also told a joke about Trump s proposed border wall with Mexico, saying, I guess you can get some Mexicans to do it cheaper and they wouldn t crush the tunnels underneath.
When the audience did not respond well, he quipped, Are you El Chapo people?
in reference to the drug kingpin who has used tunnels to evade authorities.Lopez then announced a video segment but he did not return to the stage, and a local newscaster took over the hosting duties.Host of HUGE charity #CarouselBall, @georgelopez , makes political comments about Trump, drops f-bomb and is escorted out.
J R (@DrumIntuition) October 14, 2017TV host Chris Parente posted on Twitter, big controversy: host of HUGE charity #CarouselBall, @georgelopez, makes political comments about Trump, drops f-bomb and is escorted out.
Page SixChris Parente s tweet has since been deleted.