If you have not yet heard, alt-Right (that means Nazi) scumbag Milo Yiannopoulos will be headlining the annual Stupid People Convention (CPAC) this year.
But did you know he totally thinks it s OK for grown men to f*ck kids?
We get hung up on this sort of child abuse stuff to the point where we are heavily policing consensual adults, Yiannopoulos can be heard saying in a recently-surfaced video before giving his controversial viewpoint that grown men having sex with middle schoolers is perfectly normal and should be accepted: In the homosexual world, particularly, some of those relationships between younger boys and older men the sort of coming of age relationship those relationships in which those older men help those young boys discover who they are and give them security and safety and provide them with love and a reliable, sort of rock, where they can t speak to their parents.
To be clear, this may be what Yiannopoulos considers normal, but it is not not in the homosexual world or anywhere else.
It sounds like molestation to me, an unnamed person replies.
It sounds like Catholic priest molestation to me.
But you know what?
I m grateful for Father Michael.
I wouldn t give nearly such good head if it wasn t for him, Yiannopoulos joked, because it s funny to joke about molesting children now, apparently.
He went on to explain that such relationships are not pedophilia because 13-year-old children are sexually mature, adding that these relationships can be hugely positive experiences for the kids.
In the interview, Yiannopoulos makes it clear that he is advocating for those sorts of relationships not just playing devil s advocate.Here s the video:But it gets creepier.
In a separate interview with Joe Rogan, Milo explains that he once attended a Hollywood party where very young boys were kept around for sex a party similar to the one at which Donald Trump allegedly raped a 13-year-old girl.After the audio and video surfaced, Yiannopoulos responded, claiming that it s all fake:There s a video going around that purports to show me saying anti-semitic things (nope) and advocating for pedophilia (big nope).
The shocking thing?
It s Republicans doing it.
Sad to see establishment types collapse into the same tactics as social justice warriors: name calling, deceptively edited videos, confected moral outrage and public shaming.
This is why they deserve to burn and why they are burning.
Here s how I actually feel about pedophilia, which you d know if you d actually watched or read anything I ve ever done.
Or, you know, if you had two brain cells to rub together.
There s only one appropriate response to this sort of behavior, and it s a gigantic F**K YOU!Suuure, Milo.
Sure.
F*ck off.featured image via screengrab