HERE S THE WIKILEAKS LINK TO ALL REFERENCES TO TOM PEREZ: TOM PEREZ WIKILEAKSHERE S ONE EMAIL TO JOHN PODESTA FROM PEREZ VIA WIKILEAKS:From:tomperez1@verizon.net To: john.podesta@gmail.com, maya@mayalharris.com Date: 2016-02-05 03:10 Subject: Observations from the roadJohn and Maya Nice job two nights in a row by HRC.
Congrats on Iowa as well.
A win is a win.
They said high turnout would hurt us and we won nonetheless.
I was in NH on Sunday and Nevada on Monday and Tuesday for HRC and thought I would give you some observations from the field.
1.
I was super impressed with the field staff that I met in both places.
Really impressive group everywhere.2.
I dont think I can add more on New Hampshire bc you are there and probably dont need someone else from the peanut gallery.
I think people will be surprised at how she is able to close the gap.
I like the vote with your head and your heart line, and I like the comeback on the establishment stuff.
I also liked how she let her guard down a bit last night in the town hall format.
She humanized herself.3.
I wish she would talk about the issues she cares about through the prism of more human stories.
Logos, ethos, pathos.
She has met so many people with so many gut wrenching stories of grit and determination, struggle followed by success.
I wish there were more pathos, or more real stories behind her really sound policy proposals.
Whenever I talk about ACA, I talk about through the prism of real people for whom the ACA saved their lives.
The stories are incredible.
In my HRC advocacy, I now say how these people dont have the time to wait for Senator Sanders to complete his quest for the perfect health care system, or the perfect immigration reform bill; it gets alot of good nods, especially when I talk about Kennedy McCain immigration and how Bernie opposed this, and immigrants are still suffering the consequences of inaction.4.
I spent two days in Nevada and I am a huge huge fan of Emmy, the state director.
She is whip smart, passionate, organized, and knows Nevada inside and out.
I have been with her twice now.
She is a huge asset, as is Michelle, one of her top aides.
Jorge is a top flight comms guy who knows Nevada well from Harry Reid days.
Best field organizer I have met so far is a young man named Henry who is about an hour from Las Vegas.
I spoke in this remote town at 10 am on Tuesday to HRC volunteers, and he had 50 people there incredibly diverse!
Great team.5.
I think Nevada is the firewall on a number of levels, and the most important thing I want to communicate in this email is my strong belief that HRC should travel to Nevada asap after New Hampshire.
I think she should be in Nevada no later than Thursday or Friday of next week.6.
Nevada is an opportunity to fight back on so many levels.
First, the current storyline is that she does not connect well with young voters.
Given that Nevada is far more demographically representative of America, I am confident that HRC can do well with all African Americans, Latinos, and Asian Americans (dont forget the sizeable population of Asian Americans in Nevada, including Filipinos.).
Emmy and the team have a good plan to attract all minority voters.
When we do well there, then the narrative changes from Bernie kicks ass among young voters to Bernie does well only among young white liberals that is a different story and a perfect lead in to South Carolina, where once again, we can work to attract young voters of color.
So I think Nevada is a real opportunity , and I would strongly urge HRC to get out there within a couple days of NH.7.
Nevada has a greater unity density than New Hampshire or Iowa, and this also presents an opportunity.
I spent alot of time with union folks in Nevada.
Of those who have endorsed, I think there are varying levels of enthusiasm.
I spent alot of time giving passionate pep talk about how Nevada is labor s biggest and best opportunity thus far to send a strong message to the country that organized labor remains strong and relevant.
They could use additional stroking.
Teachers are fine.
Trades have some great folks (Todd Koch for instance) and some seemingly more tepid folks.
President Clinton I am told is coming out there very soon and I hope he can speak with labor and close the deal.8.
I went and met with Jim Murren at MGM.
A great guy as you know.
The caucus system is really tough on shift workers, and he is a huge ally.
We can reach out to him often enough to say thanks.
I am glad I saw him.9.
The major Latino publication in Las Vegas will be endorsing next week.
Jorge has major street cred with them.
We had a good meeting.
They adore HRC and will endorse with enthusiasm.10.
The caucus system out there is so screwy, and the challenges for shift workers sufficiently significant, that I do worry about turnout.
This is why I hope HRC can get there asap.
Anyway, wanted to give you my thoughts.
Let me know how I can be of further assistance.
I believe I am heading to Milwaukee next Thursday to help with debate spin.
Tom Perez