Trump mouthpiece Kayleigh McEnany attacked former Labor Secretary Robert Reich on Thursday night and quickly discovered that she was out of her depth.While CNN awaited Donald Trump s appearance at a rally, Anderson Cooper turned to Reich for his thoughts on Trump conflicts of interest and his cabinet selections.Reich slammed Trump s picks, pointing out that he has chosen people to run departments that they want to destroy.
For instance, Jeff Sessions has been chosen to run the Department of Justice and he s an opponent of civil rights and the Voting Right Act.
Betsy DeVos hates public education and she has been chosen to run the Education Department.
And Andrew Puzder was recently chosen to run the Labor Department even though he is hostile towards workers and opposes minimum wage, overtime pay, and basic labor regulations.Well, of course, Kayleigh McEnany threw a hissy fit about what Reich said and she proceeded to attack him and offer a pathetic defense of Trump s choices.
I just want to quickly say to Secretary Reich, I thought it was really unfair the way you characterize the cabinet picks, she began.
You know Jeff Sessions is a great guy.
He s not against the Voting Rights Act.
But that s not true.
Jeff Sessions is, in fact, against the Voting Rights Act.
He has often claimed that its provisions are unconstitutional and actually cheered when the Supreme Court gutted a key piece of it in 2013.And then McEnany defended Trump s Labor pick.
I think the pick today, Mr. Puzder, is a guy who his employees have said he cares about the cashier the same way he cares about the business owners, McEnany said.
I think it s really unfair to characterize him that way.
She continued to defend Puzder by noting that he only opposes the federal minimum wage, which really doesn t help since without federal minimum wage many red states would set their already low wages even lower.
She then accused Reich of attacking Puzder just because he s a conservative.
Just because he s conservative, it doesn t mean he s anti-worker, she whined.But Reich was prepared for such bullshit and promptly ripped McEnany a new one.
I m not saying he s anti-worker because he s conservative, Reich replied.
I m saying he s anti-worker because he s anti-worker.
The Department of Labor came into his restaurants and found that half his restaurants had wage and labor violations that violated the law of the United States.
You think that s pro-worker?
You think it s pro-worker that his weekly paycheck equals the average yearly paycheck of his workers and he s against a minimum wage increase?
You think that is pro-worker?
I m sorry I ve never heard of that.
McEnany then resorted to accusing Reich of being a socialist and claimed that Puzder is qualified because he s a rich fast food CEO.
Of course, she doesn t mention that he s a staunch opponent of the Fight for $15, a movement by fast food workers to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
In other words, he has a conflict of interest because by taking the Labor Secretary job he can destroy the drive for fair wages that his own employees are part of.And Reich called McEnany out for it.
But why should they be Secretary of Labor when they are in charge of enforcing the labor laws and they have a record of not even obeying the labor laws?
he asked.McEnany then spouted bullshit about how trickle-down will work because it worked in the 1980s, which forced Reich to shut her down.
It did not work in the 1980s, Reich forcefully declared.
Wages were flat The median wage started to flatten and decline.
And that s because we had a president who believe in supply-side trickle-down economics and nothing trickled down Nothing nothing trickled down to typical workers.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, the only people who saw gains because of Reagan s policies were the wealthy.
And his economic policies are still punishing Americans to this day and all Republicans want to do is double down on them like they did in Kansas, and as we all know, Kansas economy has imploded.The next time McEnany thinks about attacking a former Labor Secretary who was also a former Harvard professor and current professor at the University of California at Berkeley, she should just keep her mouth shut.
She won t embarrass herself that way.Featured Image: Screenshot