Donald Trump tried out a new minion on Sunday in what resulted in an embarrassing and terrifying appearance on all the networks.Trump adviser Stephen Miller, who helped write Trump s apocalyptic and negative inaugural address and the executive order that banned travelers from seven countries from entering the United States, appeared on the Sunday shows to press the same theme over and over again.Miller claimed that the judicial branch has no authority to stand in the way of Trump s national security agenda and that Trump is always 100 percent correct.
We do not have judicial supremacy in this country, Miller said on Fox News Sunday.
We have three co-equal branches of government.
It s true that we have three branches of government, but the Constitution clearly made the judicial branch responsible for interpreting the laws and deciding what is and what is not constitutional.Last week, the Ninth Circuit Court ruled against reinstating Trump s executive order, a blistering defeat for his administration.The ruling caused Republicans to make a bill splitting the Ninth Circuit Court a top priority as punishment.
And now Trump and his team are trying to undermine the power of the judiciary in retaliation.And that why Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski expressed horror on Monday morning.The Morning Joe hosts could not believe how anti-Constitution Miller was and that Trump actually praised him for it.
It s so much worse than I ever thought, Scarborough said after both reacted to Miller s performance by saying, Oh my God.
Scarborough then proceeded to inform Miller that courts have every right to question what Trump does and gave him a quick lesson about the Constitution.
They will be questioned by the court it s called judicial review.
Alexander Hamilton and James Madison wrote about it in the Federalist Papers, it was enshrined in Madison s Constitution.
Indeed, Article 3 of the Constitution has been the bedrock of our nation s judiciary since America s founding.Article 3 states:The judicial power of the United States, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish The judicial power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States shall be a party; to controversies between two or more states; between a state and citizens of another state; between citizens of different states; between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants of different states, and between a state, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects.In short, the courts have the final say about what is constitutional and what is not.
Trying to undermine the power of the judiciary is a violation of the Constitution.That was the worst performance out of anybody, Scarborough continued.
That was horrendous, an embarrassment.
Go back and read the constitution.
The White House has got to stop embarrassing themselves by putting this guy out there.
Scarborough concluded that if Trump keeps trying to undermine the judiciary he ll be impeached.Here s the video via Twitter..@JoeNBC on Stephen Miller s weekend performance: That was horrendous and an embarrassment https://t.co/rE5Fxo8AF3 Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) February 13, 2017Donald Trump continues to get more dangerous to our democracy and Constitution every day.
He needs to be ousted before we wake up one day and no longer have rights.Featured image via screenshot