The fun s already begun at the Republican Leadership Conference on Mackinac Island in Michigan.
A well known political adviser to Rand Paul, the very snarky John Yob, was punched by Marco Rubio s deputy campaign manager last night.Here s a post that appeared on John Yob s Facebook page this morning.
In his post, John Yob has this to say about the alleged perpetrator, he isn t relevant in our political world.
That s likely because it s been our personal experience that no one is relevant in John Yob s political world.
He is famous for helping the faux conservative Governor Snyder to win his first election.
To the best of our knowledge, he has failed miserably at every campaign he s headed up since then.
Is it possible he was intentionally agitating Rubio s campaign manager for PR?
We wouldn t put it past him Patty and I are on our way to the Mackinac event to report back any interesting political happenings so we ll keep everyone updated on this Rubio incident.
A huge Republican political gathering on Mackinac Island got under way Thursday night with a barroom incident in which a top official for presidential candidate Sen. Marco Rubio allegedly threw a punch at a Michigan consultant working for Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky.The alleged incident took place at Horn s Bar, a popular nightspot on Mackinac Island, which hosts the Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, which is held every other year and has drawn six GOP presidential hopefuls this year.John Yob, a Grand Rapids political consultant who is national political director and chief Michigan strategist for the Rand Paul campaign, said on Facebook Friday morning that he was punched in the face inside the bar by Rich Beeson, who is deputy campaign manager for Rubio, a Florida senator.
I ran into a guy named Rich Beeson, who frankly I didn t even know who it was at first because he isn t relevant in our political world, Yob said.
He literally physically assaulted me by punching me in the face.
The state police are looking for him.
I have it on video, from multiple angles.
This will play out in the national media in the next few hours.
An officer at the Mackinac Island Police Department early Friday would neither confirm nor deny that the incident took place.
He said there would be no comment until the chief of police arrives at the station later this morning.
Beeson did not immediately return a phone message seeking comment.An incident involving alcohol, a punch and Horn s Bar is already part of Michigan political lore.In 2003, at the Detroit Regional Chamber s annual policy conference on Mackinac Island, U.S. Rep. Mike Bishop, then a state senator, got punched as he attempted to board a carriage in an early morning incident near Horn s Bar.
The Clarkston man who threw the punch was arrested and convicted.Paul is expected to be on the island to speak at the conference.
Rubio is not.
The conference, hosted by the Michigan Republican Party, runs until Sunday morning.Via: DFP