Is former DNC Chair Donna Brazile attempting to tie Hillary to the murder of DNC staffer Seth Rich in her new book Hacks ?
What does Brazile know?
Is she in danger if she says too much?
Is Brazile offering just enough information, so that authorities are pressured into looking into a connection with Hillary and Seth Rich s murder?
From her book Hacks :I felt some responsibility for Seth Rich s death.
I didn t bring him into the DNC, but I helped keep him there working on voting rights.
With all I knew now about the Russians hacking, I could not help but wonder if they had played some part in his unsolved murder.
Besides that, racial tensions were high that summer and I worried that he was murdered for being white on the wrong side of town.
[My friend] Elaine expressed her doubts about that, and I heard her.
The FBI said that they did not see any Russian fingerprints there.Daily Caller Brazile repeatedly returns to the subject of being haunted by Rich s murder, even though other Democrats have pounced on anyone who suggested that the murder was anything other than a robbery gone wrong.
The DNC data staffer was killed days before Wikileaks began publishing its emails, and his valuables were not taken.100 Percent Fed Up The private investigator, Rod Wheeler, who was hired by the Rich family to get to the bottom of the murder of their son, DNC staffer Seth Rich, offered startling information on the Rich murder case when he appeared on the Sean Hannity show on May 15, 2017.
Wheeler spoke about the mystery of why they can t locate the computer Rich used.
They went on to discuss clues in the case that point to collusion between the DC police and the DNC.
The most shocking information comes at the 4:20 mark when Wheeler says that a high ranking official at the DNC wanted to know why he was snooping around.Rod Wheeler: Here s one other thing that is going to be startling I m just gonna say this right now.
I reached out to the police department way back in March when the family first hired me right..to get involved.
I didn t hear anything from the police department for 2-3 days.Guess what I learned yesterday from the family of Seth Rich?
The police department did not call me back because someone, a high ranking official at the DNC check this out a high ranking official at the DNC when I called the police department, they got that information and called the Rich family wanting to know, why was I snooping around?
Shorty after WND wrote a story that outed Donna Brazile as the high ranking DNC representative who allegedly called the police to ask why a private investigator was snooping into Rich s death, Twitter SUSPENDED WND s account!Here s the title and an excerpt from the WND article:BOMBSHELL: DONNA BRAZILE WARNED OFF PRIVATE EYE ON SETH RICH MURDEREx-DNC chairwoman reportedly asked cops why investigator is snooping into mysterious case Alicia Powe and Liz Crokin wrote the story that was also posted to and deleted from the social media platform by Twitter: Former Democratic National Committee interim chairwoman Donna Brazile is the high-ranking DNC representative who allegedly called police and the family of murdered DNC staffer Seth Rich and demanded to know why a private investigator was snooping into Rich s death, the private eye revealed to WND Monday.
The high-ranking DNC official that called the police after I inquired about Rich s case was Donna Brazile, veteran homicide detective Rod Wheeler told WND.
Why shouldn t I reveal who it was?
Brazile, who was also a CNN contributor and a Hillary for America donor at the time, was caught providing Democratic Party nominee Hillary Clinton with questions that would later be asked of Clinton at a televised CNN town hall.
In an interview with Fox News before the election, Brazile denied leaking the questions to Clinton.
But in a March 17, 2017, column for Time magazine, she finally admitted doing so, saying it was a mistake I will forever regret.
According to WND, their Twitter account was suspended because of this Seth Rich investigation bombshell.Daily Caller But Brazile says she had a spook, with connections to the intelligence community, who told her after the killing that she needed protection for herself, including cameras, alarms and backup power at her house, and that she heeded his advice.I knew the campaign had over $3 million set aside in a legal fund.
Could she help me get this lawsuit started?
And don t forget the murder of Seth Rich, I told her.
Did she want to contribute to Seth s reward fund?
We still hadn t found the person responsible for the tragic murder of this bright young DNC staffer.
You re right, she said.
We re going to get to that.
But she really had to go.
She had made the call and checked it off her list, and I accepted after we said our goodbyes that I might never hear from her again.