When looking at any Donald Trump event lately, it can almost be guaranteed that there will be some sort of protest.
With his vitriolic and racist rhetoric, he s bound to have at least a few people stand up and say something.
Now, with Trump getting closer and closer to being the clear Republican nominee, these protests are becoming even more frequent.
And Trump always makes sure any dissenting voice is removed, because god forbid anyone disagree with what he has to say.In an effort to remove these protesters as fast and as peacefully as possible, the Trump campaign has been playing this announcement before every event: This is a peaceful rally.
In order to notify the law enforcement officers of the location of the protester, please hold a rally sign over your head and start chanting, Trump.
Trump.
Trump.
Ask the people around you to do likewise til the officer removes the protester.
Thank you for helping us make America great again.
Now, if you re like me and thought, no way, that can t be real, that has to be a voice over, because it s just too goddamn creepy.
Well, upon further research, it is, in fact, true.
According to NBC News, as of a couple of months ago, Trump began running this announcement at the beginning of his rallies.
Attendees were instructed ahead of the event to not harm the protesters, an announcement that is becoming more frequent at the start of Trump s events.Audience members followed those rules as far as could be seen, cheering Trump and U-S-A until the interrupters were escorted out by event security and law enforcement.
So, it seems this announcement is not only very real, but it is why we hear the Trump!
Trump!
USA!
chants at every rally surrounding a protester using their freedom of speech to openly dissent.Check out the extraordinarily bizarre announcement here:An announcement before Trump s rally on how his supporters should deal with protestors.
pic.twitter.com/WT4NqSbGI2 Vic Berger IV (@VicBergerIV) February 29, 2016Featured image: Flickr