Somebody alert Mike Rowe, the dirtiest job in America is being the Republican National Convention s Hispanic Media Director under presumptive nominee Donald Trump.Already tasked with building inroads with a group of people whom many of your fellow Republicans view as less thans or criminals, the job of appealing to Hispanics under the leadership of Donald Trump is a near impossibility.
How demeaning is it to be a Hispanic woman working for Trump s Republican Party?
The current and long-suffering Hispanic Media Director Ruth Guerra resigned.
When some Republicans heard the news of Ruth Guerra had quit, they didn t feel betrayed.
They felt relieved that her misery was over.
I m so proud of her for leaving, one Hispanic Republican said Wednesday night when told the news.
I don t know how she held on for this long.
The woman tasked with taking her place has had the job for less than 24 hours and already had to take a humiliating first step: Purging her social media accounts of any criticisms of Trump (of which there were many).Hours before the announcement that Helen Aguirre Ferr would be stepping into the role of working with Spanish-speaking media outlets and coordinating Hispanic outreach, she quietly deleted many of her tweets of the Trump bashing she used to regularly post.
Unfortunately for her, the internet never forgets.
Buzzfeed quickly found a cache of old, deleted tweets in which Ferr seemed to have been a Never Trump Republican and had publicly sided with Trump rival Ted Cruz during the primaries.
Ferr now gets to be the party face of a man who actively hates both her ethnicity and gender.
Trump may adore taco bowls, but his view towards Hispanic and Latinos is casually racist in a way that should be appalling to anyone living in the 21st century.
Having launched his campaign by accusing Mexico of sending rapists and murderers across the border, Trump is also a big fan of using the word Mexican as an insult.
Recently, he attempted to smear the judge presiding over his Trump University lawsuit as a biased Mexican incapable of doing his job.
He similarly slammed New Mexico s Republican governor.
(Her crime?
She didn t endorse him.
)Ferr has to watch as her ethnicity is repeatedly disparaged, while actively working to get the man doing so elected.
And worse, she was forced to cleanse her own misgivings from the public s view even many that were and still are valid criticisms.
Whether that s a sign of lack of personal integrity on Ferr s part or a sad statement about just how desperate Hispanic Republicans are to get any voice at all in the party is open to interpretation.
Whatever the case, Ferr s job is very, very dirty.Featured image via Twitter