The question as to whether Donald Trump is being investigated by special counsel Robert Mueller or not was answered definitively by Trump himself via a tweet he posted on Friday morning.
That s why Jay Sekulow, a key member of Trump s legal team, confused the world when he insisted that Trump is in fact not being investigated by Mueller on Sunday.While making his rounds on the Sunday morning political talk show circuit, Sekulow told NBC s Meet the Press host, Chuck Todd, the president is not and has not been under investigation for obstruction.
After dropping this nuclear-grade contradiction, Sekulow was forced to defend his position to multiple members of the press.
One interview, which aired on Fox News Sunday was particularly brutal for Sekulow.
The show s host, Chris Wallace, qualified the reality of the situation well when he said, Oh boy, this is weird.
He takes the action that [the Attorney General s office] recommended and now he s being investigated by the Department of Justice.
He s being investigated for taking the action that the attorney general and deputy attorney general recommended him to take by the agency who recommended the terminations!
You ve now said he is being investigated after saying [he isn t], Wallace observed.
No, he s not being investigated!
Sekulow shouts at Wallace.
You just said he s being investigated, Wallace said.
At this point, Wallace is not putting up with Sekulow s inconsistencies.
Sir, you just said two times that he s being investigated, the Wallace fires back.
And he s not just being investigated for firing Comey, there s also what he said to Comey when Comey was still the FBI director.
Sekulow then claims that Wallace is putting words in his mouth, insisting that he has been crystal clear about his assertion that Trump is not being investigated.
Sekulow then tries to play of his contradiction as nothing more than him speaking on the legal theory of how the Constitution works.
He then accuses Wallace of rephrasing what he is saying.Of course, this is all complete nonsense.
That s why Wallace responds confidently, saying, I didn t rephrase it.
The tape will speak for itself; you said he is being investigated.
You can watch the interview below.
Featured image from video screenshot