Donald Trump s son Eric recently claimed that the Hispanic population is basically fawning over his father and counting down the days until Trump moves into the White House.Earlier this week, Eric appeared on Irish radio s RTE Radio1 s Drivetime to spew false information about one of the groups of people that Trump has insulted and offended the most.
Spreading lies about Hispanic people approaching him to tell him just how badly they want his father to be the next President of the United States, the younger Trump said: People often talk about Hispanics.
You know, I have more Hispanics come up to me telling me, Listen, I can t wait for your father to be president.
He s going to bring jobs back to the United States.
He s going to end the nonsense.
He s going to create good trade deals.
He s going to create better education.
He s going to create a better family structure.
Eric also assured listeners that they can t believe everything they see on TV.
Despite what the news is reporting, Eric insists that Hispanics are overwhelmingly supportive of The Donald: I see so little of the divisiveness, which is interesting.
You watch it on TV, but you see so little of it out in the field.
You can listen to this idiotic interview below:I m not sure what world Eric is living in, but it can t be this one.
According to current surveys, Trump has basically no chance with Hispanics a poll by America s Voice and Latino Decisions discovered that 79% of Hispanics do NOT like Trump.
And who could blame them?
Trump is the candidate that kicked off his presidential campaign with one of the most racist statements ever made when he claimed that Mexico was sending people that have lots of problems.
They re bringing drugs.
They re bringing crime.
They re rapists.
And some, I assume, are good people.
And that was just the beginning.
Since then, Trump has made several more outrageous, anti-Latino statements, threatened to deport all immigrants in the country illegally, and even p*ssed off Mexico s most prominent leaders with his ridiculous border wall comments.
Trump s made it perfectly clear that he has extreme prejudices against Hispanics and all of his words and actions back this up.
Eric should probably spend some time educating himself, because more Hispanics than ever have registered to vote in this election so they can vote AGAINST Trump.
Republican media consultant Lionel Sosa explained this phenomenon perfectly when he said: When you take a whole group of people and you call them murderers and rapists, it s a personal affront.
Sure, they are going to register, and it s going to be an anti-Trump vote.
Sorry Eric, but Daddy can t fix this.Featured image via Ethan Miller / Getty Images