Jake Tapper laid into Kellyanne Conway on Tuesday over Donald Trump s claim that the media is covering up terrorist attacks.On Monday, Trump literally accused the media of ignoring terrorist attacks to keep the American people in the dark and to keep them in opposition to his Muslim ban.
It s gotten to a point where it s not even being reported, Trump told U.S. Central Command.
And in many cases, the very, very dishonest press doesn t want to report it.
They have their reasons and you understand that.
Except that the media has covered lots of terrorist attacks over the years, most of them extensively and journalists have risked their lives to report on some of them.Trump released a list of supposed undercovered terrorist attacks and the list somehow included Paris, Nice, and San Bernardino among other significant attacks even though the media exhaustively covered them.So CNN let Conway appear again on the network to answer for Trump s lies, and they apparently did that so she could get her ass handed to her by Jake Tapper.During the interview, Tapper demanded to know why Trump won t stop lying and refused to take Conway s bullshit when she attempted to spin.
After he said that, the White House released a list of the attacks that he was supposedly referring to as, in his words, not even being reported, I want to put some footage of CNN reporters covering attacks that were on that list, Tapper said.
Saying that we don t cover terrorism, that s just false.
And, indeed, he did put the footage up and forced Conway to concede that not only did CNN cover many of the attacks on the list, they did a good job doing it.But Conway still tried to claim that Trump was somehow making a point by including those attacks and she soon began whining about how the media has covered Trump from the campaign trail to the White House.Apparently, the Wicked Witch of the West expected all the media coverage to be one big cheerleading squad for the Trump administration.That didn t fly with Tapper.
That s a lovely spin, but that s not what he was saying Kellyanne, Tapper said, reminding her that Trump literally accused the media of not reporting on these attacks.And then Tapper went for the jugular and demanded to know why Trump has remained silent about a terrorist attack in Quebec, Canada that was committed against a mosque by a white right-wing Trump fan.
President Trump has not said or tweeted one public word about this, Tapper said.
You want to talk about ignoring terrorism, why hasn t the president offered his sympathy to our neighbors in the north?
Mic.
Dropped.Conway tried to claim that Trump is opposed to any loss of life, but the fact is that while he constantly whines about petty things on Twitter on a daily basis, he couldn t even be bothered to say anything about the attack in Quebec.
In fact, all of the terrorist attacks Trump listed were committed by Muslim extremists, conveniently ignoring the higher number of terrorist attacks committed by white right-wingers in this country.Tapper even noted that Trump found time to tweet about the attack at the Louvre in Paris in which no lives were lost but completely ignored the Quebec attack that killed six innocent people.Here s the video via YouTube.Seriously, CNN and every other media outlets should permanently ban Kellyanne Conway from appearing on their programming.
Even when confronted with the truth she continues to lie for Donald Trump and then spins by whining about media coverage.
It s the only play she has in her playbook and it is embarrassing and pathetic.Featured Image: Screenshot