Bernie Sanders and his supporters just received some excellent news concerning the mix up that might have prevented his name from being on the ballot in Washington, D.C.Anita Bonds, chairwoman of the Washington, D.C. Democratic Party told CNN that Bernie will be on the ballot.
Sanders supporters were dismayed to hear that the Democratic presidential candidate might not be on the ballot.
On Wednesday, NBC4 Washington reported that D.C. Democrats had failed to send Sanders campaign information to the D.C. Board of Elections until one day after the registration was due.Headlines proclaiming that Sanders may not be on the ballot in the upcoming D.C. primary election may have given some of Sanders supporters heart attacks.
However, Sanders campaign did not seem to be concerned about the possibility of his name not being on the ballot come June 14, the day of D.C s primary election.
We did what the D.C. law requires in order to get Bernie on the ballot and we are confident he will be on the ballot, a spokesman with the Sanders campaign said.Sanders campaign had already paid $2500 in registration fees and gave his registration filings to the D.C. Democratic Party earlier this month.It turns out that the Board of Elections closes before the deadline.
So it is common to turn in the registration filings the day after the deadline.
This has been kind of a tradition in the District of Columbia, that the party would notify the board the following day, Bonds told CNN.What s unusual about the potentially campaign dooming mix-up, is that Sanders was actually challenged on the matter.
The challenge to Sanders campaign came from a voter who lives in D.C.
Neither Hillary Clinton nor Rocky De La Fuente, who had also paid their registration fees on time, were challenged.Bonds is working to rectify the current situation.
In addition to her position as the chairperson of the D.C Democratic Party, she also serves on the city council.
She plans to change the city s rules to include a 24-hour grace period after the registration deadline.
That means Sanders is safe.While I am glad that everything has turned out okay, this time, I have to say that it might be time for D.C. Democratic Party to find a new tradition concerning turning in campaign registration filings.Featured image: (Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty Images)