Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump wants to pretend that he s for the working man, that he understands their struggles.
The truth is, though, that Trump is a rich, spoiled brat who has never known poverty or what it is like to worry where his next meal or rent check was coming from.
That s the reality for many average Americans, and he doesn t have a clue about it.
One person who understands this is Cleveland Cavaliers basketball great LeBron James.James wrote a passionate op-ed in Business Insider, in which he laid out the reasons he is endorsing and supporting Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.
James writes: As a kid, I didn t have much money.
It was just my mom and me, and things were rough at times.
But I had basketball.
That gave me a family, a community, and an education.
That s more than a lot of children in Akron can say.If basketball has taught me anything, it s that no one achieves greatness alone.
And it takes everyone working together to create real change.When I look at this year s presidential race, it s clear which candidate believes the same thing.
Only one person running truly understands the struggles of an Akron child born into poverty.
And when I think about the kinds of policies and ideas the kids in my foundation need from our government, the choice is clear.That candidate is Hillary Clinton.
This is especially significant because Ohio is a state where James is pretty much worshipped, and it is also a state that is seen as essential for winning the presidency.
This is an opinion that holds a lot of weight there.LeBron James embodies the American dream, as does Hillary Clinton.
Hillary was raised by a mother who began working at the age of 14 because she was abandoned by her parents and had to leave the home of grandparents who never wanted her and look at all Hillary became.
LeBron James was a poor kid raised by a single mom who became one of the most revered sports stars in the country.
In contrast, Donald Trump never worked for anything he has.
He inherited it.
He s really good at being a spoiled, entitled rich kid who has never cared about anything but himself and his brand.
Do we really want that as president?
I certainly don t.Thanks, LeBron.
#ImWithHer, too.Featured image via David Liam Kyle/NBAE via Getty Images