As Donald Trump s campaign continues to sink deeper into its self-sabotaging downward spiral, it s becoming clear that even Trump s campaign surrogates and former staffers are having trouble trying to stay positive about the outcome of this election.
In just the past few days, we ve seen them completely deny that Trump s campaign made some massive changes in desperation, ignore polls that The Donald is losing and now thanks to former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, they re holding onto false hope that Trump can still somehow win this.Earlier today on CNN, Lewandowski who is forbidden by contract to say anything negative about Trump tried to convince everyone that Trump was still on track to win this election because his biggest opponent, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, was losing voters to Green Party candidate Jill Stein and Libertarian Party candidate Gary Johnson.
Lewandowski said: This is not a two-person race.
Gary Johnson and Jill Stein are in this race.
I would say Jill Stein should be in the debates.
She s a person who is going to take away votes from Hillary Clinton.
You just had her here on the show At the end of the day, Donald Trump is going to win this election, he s going to win in states because Gary Johnson and Jill Stein are going to take votes away from Hillary Clinton.
While Lewandowski clung to his delusions, CNN panelist Bill Kristol was sitting right beside him, shaking his head while smiling and muffling his laughter.
When Kristol could finally get enough control over himself to speak, he dropped a major truth bomb that Lewandowski and Trump weren t going to like: That s the last recourse of a campaign that s going to lose.
It s hoping third-and-fourth-party candidates are going to magically change the equation.
At the end of the day, 38% of the American people think Donald Trump should be president, it s never gotten much above that number.
You can watch Kristol giggle at Lewandoski s silly hopes below:.
@CLewandowski_: Donald Trump is going to win bc Gary Johnson + Jill Stein will take votes away fr Hillary Clinton https://t.co/jvwPm42LGm New Day (@NewDay) August 18, 2016Featured image is a screenshot