Chris Christie s New Jersey is in such gridlock that they ve had shut down the government, which means they ve had to shut down the beaches the very same beaches New Jerseyans love to spend their summers.
One New Jersey family, though, is spending the weekend at the shore.
Governor Chris Christie and his family have one beach all to themselves and when his constituents complained, he gave them the most Trump answer possible, which boils down to I m governor and you re not.
That s just the way it goes.
That was Gov.
Chris Chrstie s response to reporters on Saturday when asked why it was okay for his family to vacation at Island Beach State Park over the Fourth of July weekend while everyone else was locked out of the popular destination because of the government shutdown Christie ordered, leaving state parks, beaches and other facilities closed.
The governor has a residence at Island Beach.
Others don t, Christie said.
Run for governor and you can have the residence.
Source: Philly.comThe residence is owned by the state of New Jersey.
Taxpayers pay for the beach, but they are not allowed to use it.
New Jerseyans are p*ssed!NJ residents share their feelings w/ NJ Gov Chris Christie after they worked all year for a vacation & arrive to a closed beach #njshutdown pic.twitter.com/4qq2Z3evwE Bob Marsdale (@BobMarsdale) July 1, 2017You mean Chris Christie and family have the beach completely to themselves ..abuse of power https://t.co/9RHDcIbnEz lj ritter (@bernierockson) July 2, 2017What a piece of shit Chris Christie is.
No words for what a garbage person is running NJ.
#njshutdown https://t.co/itBUJWvhpc Patrick Guaschino (@Pat_JG) July 1, 2017CHRIS CHRISTIE, GET THE HELL OFF THE BEACH!#NJBudget #NJ #ChrisChristie Brenda Walker (@SeaWalker196) July 2, 2017Chris Christie is trying to see if he can get his approval to zero before the end of his term https://t.co/akO2QS0WhF Peter Olson (@Dethtron5000) July 2, 2017Christie currently has a record low approval rating of just 15 percent and he doesn t care.
He s on the way out because of term limits.If Christie s verbal bird to his constituents sounds familiar, it could be because it s eerily reminiscent of Donald Trump, who has more than one occasion said something to the effect of I m President and you re not.
The first was in a Time Magazine interview, where he defended his way of governing: I m a very instinctual person, but my instinct turns out to be right.
Hey, look, in the meantime, I guess I can t be doing so badly, because I m President, and you re not, he told Time s Washington bureau chief, Michael Scherer.Source: CNNOn Sunday, Trump uttered a similar sentiment in a complaint about the media: The fake media is trying to silence us, Mr. Trump told the crowd at the concert hall, after returning to Washington briefly from his weekend getaway at his golf club in New Jersey.
But we will not let them.
Because the people know the truth.
The fake media tried to stop us from going to the White House.
But I m president and they re not.
Source: NY TimesIt s not surprising, considering that Christie made his name with a flagrant disregard for civility, that he d channel Trump or perhaps it is the other way around.
Christie was fairly popular for a while, but as with one of those restaurants where people pay to be abused by the staff, his attitude wore thin on voters.
It s beginning to wear thin with Trump as well, but that s for another article.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images.