Naples, Florida pastor John Gursoy is outraged over new boating regulations in the gated community where he lives.
The new regulations include limiting the number of boats that can be parked at one dock and raising the age of boat operators from 13 to 14.
Volunteer board members for the community association also voted to uphold a longstanding ban on two-stroke engines.
The new regulations so infuriated the Florida pastor that he went to Kinkos and printed off a Nazi flag.Upon returning home, Gursoy raised the flag on a cherry picker in his yard.
He also hung a sign slandering neighbor Peter Rietz, who volunteers his time to serve on the board.The sign reads Peter Rietz Fascist?
Discriminates.
Image credit: Naples Daily NewsUpon seeing the display, some members of the Florida community were disturbed enough to call police.Because the flag and sign are on private property, local law enforcement officers say no crime is being committed.When asked about the display by Naples Daily News, Gursoy said: This flag is symbolic of the most discriminatory, selective enforcement of rules ever in the history of mankind.
He went on to explain how the boating regulations, which were designed to protect the environment and members of the community where he lives, compare to Nazi Germany, saying it was all that kept coming to my mind.
Gursoy told Naples Daily News that he put the sign up as a warning to the community that this is the direction we re going with the current board.
Because clearly not being able to park ten boats on a single dock or let a 13-year-old drive a watercraft is just like Nazi Germany all over again.
It s very frustrating, Peter Rietz said during an interview with Naples Daily News.
My wife is up in arms.
Our neighbors are all up in arms.
The police have been here.
It s obviously in poor taste and reflects on the individual.
He added, It s hard to believe how someone who holds himself out as a Christian would behave in this fashion.
According to Naples Daily News Gursoy is a youth minister at Celebration Community Beach Church.Image credit: Naples Daily News