It s the end of Alabama Governor Robert Bentley s political career after he was arrested Monday on charges related to the numerous things he did to cover up an affair.
The governor was booked into Montgomery County Jail on two charges related to his failure to disclose campaign information and submitted a letter of resignation shortly afterward.The scandal began to make its way to the public when Bentley fired the head of the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency, Spencer Collier, who later revealed that he had investigated and seen evidence of an affair between the 74-year-old Bentley and his campaign spokeswoman, Rebekah Mason.
This is of course odd given Bentley s opposition to gay marriage on the one man one woman basis, but having an affair is not illegal.
Unfortunately for him, the rest of the stuff he did is.
A press release from the Alabama Ethics Commission details the rest:Today, the Alabama Ethics Commission found probable cause to believe that Governor Robert Bentley committed violations of both the Alabama Ethics Act and the Fair Campaign Practices Act.
We have referred those matters to the Montgomery County District Attorney for further consideration and possible prosecution.Intentional violations of the Alabama Ethics Act and the Fair Campaign Practices Act are Class B felonies.
The range of punishment for a Class B felony is a prison sentence of between 2 and 20 years per violation, and a fine of up to $20,000.00, per violation.
As these matters are still ongoing, the Commission is prohibited by law from any further comment regarding any of the evidence produced or presented in this case.Over the course of this year-long investigation, the Alabama Ethics Commission issued more subpoenas than have been issued by the Commission since it was given subpoena power.
Chief Special Agent Tony Goubil and Special Agent Dustin Lansford devoted countless hours in conducting this investigation.
They interviewed over 45 witnesses and have analyzed over 33,000 documents in the course of their investigation.
The staff of the Commission has worked tirelessly and thoroughly to investigate every Complaint that we received.
The evidence was reviewed and tested multiple times by career lawyers.
These lawyers include Hugh Evans our General Counsel who has devoted his career to Ethics, as well as our new Assistant General Counsel, Cynthia Propst Raulston, a career prosecutor whose experience includes analyzing and successfully trying complex white collar and public corruption cases to conclusion before juries.
Our Commissioners, who include two retired Circuit Judges, two career attorneys and a doctor, all of whom have vast experience sifting through evidence, judging the testimony of witnesses and applying difficult principles in a fair, even-handed manner, ultimately weighed the evidence and returned this finding.Justice (if you can call it that) moved swiftly after his arrest.
Bentley copped a plea and was fined $2,000 and ordered to perform 100 hours of community service.
He also agreed not to run for office again..@GovernorBentley: I have decided it is time for me to step down as Alabama s governor FTR #ForTheRecord @MSNBC https://t.co/AMmmRIrxBF Greta Van Susteren (@greta) April 10, 2017This, as strange as it sounds, should strike fear in the heart of Donald Trump.
As a man who regularly bullies anyone who criticizes him or correctly states inconvenient facts and as someone who has a history of firing people who were investigating him or those close to him, Bentley s arrest should be a clear message that no matter how much you abuse your power to cover up something in Trump s case his campaign s collusion with a hostile foreign dictator the American people won t let you get away with it.Featured image via screengrab