(Reuters) - Even for a 2016 election campaign marked by rhetorical invective, the remarks President-elect Donald Trump and Mitt Romney made about each other in the run-up to the Nov. 8 vote were especially harsh.
Those exchanges make all the more significant Trump’s plan to meet Romney, the unsuccessful 2012 Republican presidential candidate, on Saturday.
A source familiar with the meeting said they may discuss whether Romney should be considered for secretary of state in a Trump administration.
Here are some of the things, kind and unkind, that Trump and Romney have said about each other.
* “Governor Romney, go out and get ‘em.
You can do it.” - Trump endorsing Romney in February 2012 * “Donald Trump has shown an extraordinary ability to understand how our economy works ...
It means a great deal to me to have the endorsement of Mr. Trump.” - Romney accepting the 2012 endorsement * “Dishonesty is Donald Trump’s hallmark.” - Romney speaking at a political forum in Utah in March * “He was begging for my endorsement.
I could’ve said, ‘Mitt, drop to your knees,’ and he would’ve dropped to his knees.” - Trump at a March campaign rally responding to the Romney speech and describing how Romney had sought his endorsement in 2012 * “Think of Donald Trump’s personal qualities.
The bullying, the greed, the showing off, the misogyny, the absurd third-grade theatrics.
Now, imagine your children and your grandchildren acting the way he does.” - Romney’s anti-Trump speech in March * “He failed horribly ... Mitt is indeed a choke artist.” - Trump in March assessing Romney’s presidential run * “Here’s what I know.
Donald Trump is a phony, a fraud.
His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University.” - Romney in March * “Mitt Romney had his chance to beat a failed president but he choked like a dog.
Now he calls me racist - but I am least racist person there is.” - Trump tweet in June * “I think his comments time and again appeal to the racist tendency that exists in some people and I think that’s dangerous.” - Romney in a CNN interview in June * “Mitt Romney called to congratulate me on the win.
Very nice!” - Trump tweet five days after the Nov. 8 election