In 1991, when old, white men turned on Anita Hill, a monster was awakened, and that monster was the fury of the woman.
In the 1992 election, women let the old boy s club know exactly how it felt they elected a Democrat for president, and they made unprecedented gains in the House and he Senate.
The 1992 election was called the Year of the Woman.
And it was all thanks to one woman Hill who stood up to the good old boys.And now that the 2016 Democratic Primary is almost over, with Hillary Clinton reaching the threshold to claim victory, women will come out of the woodwork (at an even faster pace) and enact real change.Vox contends that should Clinton win the presidency, just her mere presence in the White House will be enough to spur a growth of women running for office:Clinton s gender is the most obvious way she stands out from everyone who s held the presidency before, but people inside and outside the campaign have hesitated to argue explicitly that it matters.
But it does matter.
Enormously.
A woman president would be by far the biggest, most salient, and most important example of a successful woman in American politics likely inspiring secondary and tertiary waves of women s election runs and election victories.Using analysis from political consultant Amelia Showalter, Vox shows that when women are even mentioned as potentially running for office, female involvement in the whole process increases by a percentage point.
When a woman is elected as a state Attorney General, participation increases to two percent.
When elected Governor, it increases to 2.36 percent.
When elected Senator, it increases to 2.9 percent.Should Clinton be elected President of the United States, with the sort of name recognition she has, the amount of female participation in the process (elected and unelected) would increase astronomically.
And that measure doesn t include the throngs of women Clinton will choose to fill her cabinet.Analysis also shows that when women have representation (such as the presidency) and their identity politics abortion, equal pay, childcare are adequately represented by women, they will cause a ripple effect that will essentially bring male legislators onto their side.
As Tali Mendelberg, Christopher Karpowitz, and Nicholas Goedert show:When women are many, they are more likely to voice women s distinctive concerns about children, family, the poor and the needy.
What s more, when women are more numerous and therefore more vocal on these topics, men become more vocal too, and these effects are associated with more generosity to the poor.Women, in a sense, could liberalize the country by being elected to office.
How do they get elected to office?
They are inspired to run.
And how are they inspired to run?
They see other women, like Hillary Clinton, achieve high office.It s a ripple effect that will usher in the much needed change in Washington.
After all, it s been proven that women in Congress, when they are in charge, get more done in a more bipartisan fashion.Hillary Clinton is going to help continue that.Featured image via Kevin Winter