Donald Trump supporters often say that they are voting for the bombastic self-proclaimed billionaire because he s a job creator.
Perhaps he is a job creator, but many of his employees think he s a horrible boss and a few brave women are appearing on a video to tell the nation all about it.Celia Vargas is an immigrant from El Salvador.
Trump supporters would likely hate her.
Trump rails about people like Vargas on the campaign trial.
She crossed the Mexican border and arrived in the United States during the Reagan administration, in 1981.
She remained an undocumented worker until 1986, when Reagan gave her and others like her amnesty.Now, she s an employee of Trump s Vegas Strip hotel and she can t stand her boss.
She ll be voting for Hillary Clinton.
So will many of her coworkers.
We clean the rooms every single day for Mr. Trump, so he can be rich and he has no respect for us.
I will vote for Ms. Hillary Clinton, and my family, too, says Vargas, who was 23 when she came to the United States illegally.
She fights for keeping families together, she fights for the younger people, for Dreamers.
Source: CNNIt s not just immigrants who appear on the video.
Jeffrey Wise is a guest room attendant at the Trump s Las Vegas hotel.
Superficially, Wise looks like a Trump supporter.
He s white.
His gray hair reveals his age.
More significantly, he s a Republican.
He s voting for Clinton.
You say your employees love you, said Wise, what we d like to know is why you don t love your employees back.The allegations against Trump as an employer should have killed his campaign a long time ago.
There are multiple accounts of his not paying his employees and contractors at all.
Trump is also a union buster, which I suppose isn t a problem for his supporters, but what should be is this:Trump s staff is heavily comprised of immigrants whose terms of work lag behind union hospitality workers in benefits, wages, and job security.Of course, caring about hotel workers would require empathy, something Trump supporters know nothing about.Featured image via Ty Wright/Getty Images.