While the mainstream media was salivating over the indictment of Paul Manafort by dirty cop Robert Mueller, for crimes he allegedly committed years before he worked on Trump s campaign, a bombshell was being dropped by the author of Clinton Cash , Peter Schweitzer about Hillary Clinton and how her dirty dealings while acting as Obama s Secretary of State have compromised our national security.Watch:Hillary's Clinton Foundation took in 145 MILLION frm 9 different Share holders frm Russian Uranium Co. and did NOT report it.
Podesta pic.twitter.com/rsp09SPylt STOCK MONSTER (@StockMonsterUSA) October 19, 2017The National Review recently published a great article explaining how the Clinton crime family laundered money through their crooked foundation while putting our national security at risk: The FBI had gathered substantial evidence that Russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in bribery, kickbacks, extortion, and money laundering designed to grow Vladimir Putin s atomic energy business inside the United States, The Hill s John Solomon and Alison Spann report.
They add that an eyewitness, with corroborating documents, indicates that, starting in 2009, Russian nuclear officials had routed millions of dollars to the U.S. designed to benefit former President Bill Clinton s charitable foundation during the time Secretary of State Hillary Clinton served on a government body that provided a favorable decision to Moscow.
Even after this skullduggery was discovered, the federal Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States on which Hillary sat decided that Rosatom, the Russian government s atomic-energy company, could capture 20 percent of America s uranium supply, by purchasing a mining company called Uranium One.
Rosatom announced its acquisition plans on June 8, 2010.
While Hillary weighed this deal, Bill scored $500,000 for his address that June 29 to Renaissance Capital, a Kremlin-tied bank that endorsed Rosatom s move.
Before, during, and after CFIUS s deliberations, nine Uranium One investors gave the Clinton Foundation some $145 million.
Ultimately, CFIUS approved the Kremlin s transaction, on October 23, 2010.Even worse, despite lacking an export license, Uranium One reportedly shipped uranium out of America.
Destination: Unknown.
Remember: Uranium is a main ingredient in atomic bombs.
Why would the Obama-Clinton administration let Russia have even a firecracker s worth of American uranium?
This is the $145 million question.
I was unaware of this criminal probe concerning bribery, says Peter Schweizer, who first uncovered Uranium One in Clinton Cash, his best-seller on America s most powerful crime family.For entire story: National Review