How would you feel if you found out that your child was being educated by an insanely racist person?
For many parents with children attending Chestatee Elementary School in Gainesville, Georgia, this became a reality.On Monday, Jane Wood Allen was fired from her job as a teacher after a shockingly racist Facebook post went viral.
The post, which targeted First Lady Michelle Obama, was shared thousands of times after Roni Dean-Burren, a Houston Ph.D student, took a screenshot and shared it.The caption on the hideous post, which was accompanied by a link smearing Michelle, said: This poor Gorilla.
How is she going to function in the real world, by not having all of her luxurious vacations paid for anymore?
She needs to focus on getting a total make-over (especially the hair), instead of planning vacations!
She is a disgrace to America!
Word of Allen s posts came to the attention of school officials on September 30th, according to school district spokeswoman Jennifer Caracciolo, who said, Racism and discrimination are not tolerated in Forsyth County Schools.
And it turns out, the post about Michelle Obama was far from the only bigotry that existed on Allen s page:As Allen s posts spread, the internet erupted in criticism for the racist teacher.
A Facebook page was even created in her honor it is called Chestatee Elementary School Fire Jane Wood Allen, NOW and it was calling for her removal from the school.Dear @FCSchoolsGA.Fire Jane Allen now.
Fire her, issue an apology, and begin implicit bias training for your staff.This is NOT ok. pic.twitter.com/stQtWFOwfb Shaun King (@ShaunKing) October 2, 2016Seriously, people with these hateful views should not be allowed anywhere near the minds of America s children.
Upon firing Allen, Forsyth County Schools released a statement on Facebook that read: Effective Monday, Oct. 3, Jane Wood Allen has been relieved from duty and is no longer an employee of Forsyth County Schools.
Racism and discrimination are not tolerated in our school district.
We are committed to ongoing staff training on the acceptance of all individuals.
As this is a personnel matter, the district will provide no further comment.
Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images