Trump ran on fiscal responsibility, but has since made it clear that it doesn t apply to him.In yet another intentional embarrassment, details have leaked regarding Trump s demands for his upcoming state visit to England.
They are petty and childish, and have infuriated much of England.Trump is said to have asked the Queen of England to pick him up in a gold-plated horse-drawn carriage and be given a parade as he makes his way to Buckingham Palace for an official visit.Donald Trump waving from the Queen s royal carriage is not a scenario many would have foreseen a year ago, but it has become a very real prospect, forcing security services to plan an unprecedented lockdown.The White House has made clear it regards the carriage procession down the Mall as an essential element of the itinerary for the visit currently planned for the second week of October, according to officials.This may be another petty attempt by Trump to appear better than his predecessor, President Obama.
The former president had repeatedly told the English government that it was not expected to drive him around in a gold chariot, citing cost and security.Trump, who views appearances as everything, has a different perspective.
Who would have thought?Their living room Trump tower.
Gold leaf walls-that's normal pic.twitter.com/uZqPKRXg4Q Debra Kamin (@ubucky) July 30, 2016For the English government, Trump s request is said to be a financial, security and logistical nightmare.
The Times again:One source said that Mr Trump s decision to opt for the carriage, rather than the bullet and bomb-proof car that was used by his predecessor presented a range of fresh headaches.The source said: The vehicle which carries the president of the United States is a spectacular vehicle.
It is designed to withstand a massive attack like a low-level rocket grenade.
If he s in that vehicle he is incredibly well protected and on top of that it can travel at enormous speed.
If he is in a golden coach being dragged up the Mall by a couple of horses, the risk factor is dramatically increased.
The result is that London will go into lockdown mode not seen since the Olympics.
The crushing financial burden will, of course, be footed by the English taxpayer.
Trump, who makes his Secret Service detail rent their own golf courses when he plays golf at his own course, is not expected to chip in any money.Trump s expectations to be treated as nobility is a further insult to the British people, 1.8 million of whom recently signed a petition asking that Trump be banned from the country entirely.
At several times, Parliament has debated whether to forbid Trump from entering England due to his history of racism and sexism.
During the fiesty debate, two British PMs got into a heated exchange which culminated in this epic zinger:Carmichael: Having offered a state visit [to Trump] this time, what will we offer the next time we want to get a favorable response?
Salmond: The crown jewels.
Sadly, watching Trump prance around London in gold, the joke doesn t seem like much of a joke any longer.Featured image via Stefan Wermuth WPA Pool/Getty Images