Some day, when things calm down, I'll tell the real story of @JoeNBC and his very insecure long-time girlfriend, @morningmika.
Two clowns!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2016FOX News host Sean Hannity exposed the rabid liberal anti-Trump vitriol that MSNBC hacks spew daily on their show.
Hannity offered to pay for therapy for one year for both of them, as a way to help them cope with Trump s presidency:Today, President Donald Trump turned his ire on MSNBC s Joe Scarborough and his fianc Mika Brzezinski once again, branding them with new nicknames and dishing embarrassing details about their relationship.Trump called Scarborough Psycho Joe on Twitter Thursday morning and labeled his co-host Brzezinski low I.Q.
Crazy Mika.
I heard poorly rated @Morning_Joe speaks badly of me (don't watch anymore).
Then how come low I.Q.
Crazy Mika, along with Psycho Joe, came.. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017He recalled that the television couple both wanted to join him during a New Year s Eve party at his Mar-a-lago club, but he refused.
to Mar-a-Lago 3 nights in a row around New Year's Eve, and insisted on joining me.
She was bleeding badly from a face-lift.
I said no!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 29, 2017Trump again insisted that he did not watch their show anymore but was told that the couple speaks badly of me.
Prior to Trump s tweets, the pair sneered mockingly at Trump because of his healthcare bill and started ridiculing the president because of a fake TIME magazine cover spotted in his golf club.Brzezinski mocked the photo of the cover, calling Trump s hands teensy and said he was lying every day and destroying the country :First lady Melania Trump s office also reacted to the news.
As the First Lady has stated publicly in the past, when her husband gets attacked, he will punch back 10 times harder, the statement from the first lady s office read.In January, news of Scarborough s visit to Trump s club leaked, prompting mockery from fellow journalists.
In response, an outraged Scarborough insisted he was not there to spend time with Trump socially but wanted to set up an interview.
BreitbartPaul Joseph Watson of Infowars responded brilliantly to critics of President Trump s tweet:Same media that viciously attacked Trump over his appearance (hair, hands) for 2 years is whining over Trump's tweet about Mika's appearance Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) June 29, 2017It's OK to lie about Melania doing porn or to mock Barron for being autistic, but don't you dare say Mika Brzezinski had a facelift.
Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) June 29, 2017Watson also (rightly) points out in another tweet that there is more outrage from the left over Trump s tweet about the MSNBC hack team, than about the attempted massacre of Republicans only a few weeks ago:There's more outrage over Trump's Mika Brzezinski tweet than the attempted massacre of Republicans.
That's not a clich .
There genuinely is.
Paul Joseph Watson (@PrisonPlanet) June 29, 2017