Minutes after news broke that Donald Trump had asked James Comey to drop his investigation into Michael Flynn and that Comey had kept documentation of that meeting unbeknownst to Trump Trump s never-ending campaign arm shot out an email asking his supporters to send him money.
The grifting never stops.In the email, DonaldJTrump.com tells Trump s followers that there is a vast conspiracy against him by people who don t want him to drain the swamp.
According to the tortured logic, these secret special interest groups conspired to destroy him by leaking the criminal and boneheaded things that he has been doing.
And naturally, the media was also involved:You already knew the media was out to get us.But sadly it s not just the fake news There are people within our own unelected bureaucracy that want to sabotage President Trump and our entire America First movement.Steve Bannon was right when he said, If you think they re going to give you your country back without a fight, you re sadly mistaken.
Every day is going to be a fight.
That is the promise of Donald Trump.
Deadspin writer Ashley Feinberg documented the baffling fundraising email:so now Trump is fundraising on him being a treasonous moron I guess pic.twitter.com/dVRrB7f25B Ashley Feinberg (@ashleyfeinberg) May 16, 2017Zeke Miller caught the last part where he begs for money.WOW.
Just out from Trump campaign subject lined "SABOTAGE" pic.twitter.com/w7xy0L47oF Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) May 16, 2017Trump s team promises that the next step is to completely DRAIN THE SWAMP.
It s unclear how Trump plans to do that when his Secretary of State is an oil executive, half his staff comes from Goldman Sachs, and his own daughter has an office down the hall from the Oval Office.The wording in the email suggests that Trump and his band of followers are retreating even further into their own paranoid delusions.
The leaks Trump is so concerned about have been independently confirmed time and again.
Trump himself, in his own blustering way, often confirms reports about himself in fits of rage.
In the most recent example, Trump took to Twitter to loudly acknowledge that he had given sensitive information to Russia despite his own staff saying it was false the night before.Left with few options, Trump is now declaring all out war on the truth.
Any bad press is fake news and deep state malcontents trying to undermine him.
The much more realistic idea that Trump himself is so completely incompetent that he brings these scandals on himself never occurs to him.Featured image by Michael Reynolds-Pool via Getty Images