Anyone following this election can easily see that Donald Trump is no angel.
From his bigotry, racism and misogynistic behavior and comments, it s hard to make the case that Trump is a man of virtue and worthy of running a country.
Acclaimed documentarian Ken Burns was quick to point this out in a recent interview with the Daily Beast, where he spoke at length about how awful of a human being Trump is.Although Burns was promoting his films, the filmmaker couldn t help but get carried away when the conversation turned to race relations in the United States, and the topic of Trump came up.
Burns had been talking about his film The Central Park Five, which is about five African-American teens that were wrongly convicted in the assault of a white woman in Central Park when he reminded everyone how Trump reacted to that case.
He said: He shamefully took out a full-page ad in all of the New York dailies asking for a restoration of the death penalty for two 14-year-old, two 15-year-old, and one 16-year-old innocent children.
While New York State laws would not have permitted their execution, just the fact that there was a rush to judgment ought to be complete evidence of how temperamentally unsuited he is for the office he now seeks.
After his slam of Trump s racism, Burns went off on another anti-Trump rant, labeling Trump as a super-predator and going after the business mogul for being a bigot that has benefitted from the speed of social media and an amoral internet.
Burns said: I find Donald Trump more of a super-predator.
This idea that he can attack and attack and attack whole groups of people, and that we live in a media culture where that s permitted to be tolerated it s the spectacle and not the truth of it.
An amoral internet permits a lie to travel around the world three times before the truth can get started, and we live in a place where lying is OK where a lassitude develops where it doesn t matter what the truth is and that s how it s possible for someone like him to be advanced who is so clearly temperamentally unsuited and has no idea about governing.
Then, Burns turned to the GOP and the Religious Right.
Bringing up Trump s long history of sexism, misogyny and his utterly creepy obsession with his daughter Ivanka, Burns criticized Evangelicals that are somehow able to justify voting for Trump.
The Republican Party has been extraordinarily successful at getting many groups of people to vote against their self-interest.
Evangelicals are voting for Donald Trump.
What part of Donald Trump reminds you of Jesus Christ?
Trump lusts after his own daughter on national radio, talks about women s bodies and breasts in such a disparaging way, and mocks them.
How is this in any way Christian?
When you make the other the enemy, how is that Christian?
There has been incident after incident, past and present, of Trump saying things about his daughter Ivanka that no father should ever say.
Most notable is what Trump said in a 2006 interview where he said, I don t think Ivanka would do that [pose for nude photographs] inside the magazine [Playboy].
Although she does have a very nice figure.
I ve said that if Ivanka weren t my daughter, perhaps, I would be dating her.
There have been several other instances, and it s amazing that Burns pointed this out.
If racism and bigotry weren t enough to convince America s more religious voters that Trump doesn t live the values of Christianity, his obvious sexual attraction to his own daughter should certainly raise some red flags.Featured image is a screenshot