Remember that time in 2008 when Donald Trump rode in on a white horse and personally saved the auto industry all by himself?
Yeah, me neither.
But one of his supporters thinks that actually happened.During an interview on CNN, Trump s favorite pastor, Darrell Scott, stunned former Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer and New Day host Alisyn Camerota by making that exact claim after trashing the Michigan city as a hellhole that only the Republican nominee can fix.
Detroit is in bad shape, Scott said.
It s in bad shape economically, it s in bad shape as far as crime is concerned, and so you have a candidate that s saying, I want to improve the conditions of the city economically, I want to improve the condition of the city as far as crime is concerned you can t turn a deaf ear to that, whoever it is.
Archer took umbrage to Scott s characterization of the city and warned that voters should scrutinize candidates who make such promises, especially since Trump didn t give a damn about Detroit before his poll numbers imploded.Camerota asked Scott to continue, and when he did he gave Trump credit for something that President Bush and President Obama did in 2008 and 2009 respectively.
You have someone saying, I m going to be put in a position to help Detroit in the areas that it most needs help, Scott went on.
He bailed out the auto industry.
Yes, Scott really did claim that Trump save the auto industry at the height of the Great Recession.Of course, the record is crystal clear that President Bush signed the first bailout of Chrysler and General Motors.
When President Obama took office the next year he did even more to help the American auto industry to stay alive and continue competing with foreign automakers.The auto industry is now fully recovered in this country and Donald Trump has absolutely nothing to do with it, something Scott realized moments later as he clumsily attempted to correct himself.
I mean, he just, uh, he didn t bail out the auto industry, Scott embarrassingly admitted.
What I m saying is, he had been working in relationship with the auto industry in order to stimulate the American auto industry.
Here s the video via Twitter.Heated debate over Donald Trump s outreach to black voters https://t.co/sdqciImnC1 New Day (@NewDay) September 2, 2016Once again, a Trump supporter humiliates himself on national television by getting the facts completely wrong.
At least Scott had the decency to correct himself this time.Featured Image: Getty Images