It s Black History Month and before Tuesday, Donald Trump s only acknowledgement seemed to be telling a female African-American reporter to set up a meeting with the Congressional Black Caucus, you know, because black people all know each other and working women are all secretaries.On Tuesday, though, Trump finally visited the African-American History section of the Smithsonian.
He delivered some platitudes, but he also took the opportunity to brag about himself and his win and he complained about the cost of the museum.First, the not so horrible: It s a privilege to be here today, Trump said at the museum.
This museum is a beautiful tribute to so many American heroes, heroes like Sojourner Truth, Harriet Tubman, Frederick Douglass, Booker T. Washington, Rosa Parks, the Greensboro students and the African-American Medal of Honor recipients, among so many other really incredible heroes.
Source: Talking Points MemoTrump also made a vow to fight bigotry, intolerance and hatred in all of its very ugly forms.
Of course, he could say that to his supporters rather than to victims of bigotry, intolerance and hatred, but still, the sentiment, sincere or not (it wasn t), was there.It didn t take long for Trump to start in with his usual bragging, though.Trump also thanked Sen. Tim Scott (R-SC) for joining him at the museum.
A friend of mine, a great, great senator from South Carolina.
I like the state of South Carolina, he said.
I like all those states where I won by double, double, double digits.
Nothing earth shattering there.
Trump loves his winning states and hates the states that dared exercise their democratic right to vote against him.
It was the last part that hasn t been reported much in the media, but was particularly eye opening.He wrapped up his speech by saying that the museum was built with tremendous love and passion, not to mention lots of money.
I just have to say that what they ve done here is something that can probably not be duplicated.
It was done with love and lots of money.
Trump said.
Lots of money.
We can t avoid that.
To be fair, the museum did cost about $540 million half of it paid from private donors.
As for the taxpayer funded portion, it only represented about .00007 percent of the federal budget.
It s also approximately the cost of us sending the Trumps to Mar-A-Lago every weekend for about two years.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images