On Sunday, Tulsi Gabbard appeared on Meet The Press to announce that she is resigning her position with the Democratic National Committee (DNC) in order to support presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders on the campaign trail.Rep.
Gabbard, the first American Samoan, and the first Hindu to be elected to Congress, is also a veteran of the Iraq war.During her appearance on the Meet The Press, Rep. Gabbard explained her decision to resign from the DNC.
As a veteran, as a soldier, I ve seen firsthand the true cost of war.
As we look at our choices as to who our next Commander-in-chief will be is to recognize the necessity to have a Commander-in-chief who has foresight.
Who exercises good judgment.
Who looks beyond the consequences who looks at the consequences of the actions that they are willing to take before they take those actions.
So that we don t continue to find ourselves in these failures that have resulted in chaos in the Middle East and so much loss of life, Watch the video below, courtesy of Meet The Press on Twitter.
EXCLUSIVE on #MTP: @TulsiGabbard resigned from position as DNC Vice Chair to support @BernieSanders.
pic.twitter.com/cvRE4SITy2 Meet the Press (@meetthepress) February 28, 2016Rep.
Gabbard, who called for additional debates between the two democratic candidates back in October, appears to have concerns about the inner workings of the DNC.During a telephone interview with the New York Times, Rep. Gabbard said, When I first came to Washington, one of the things that I was disappointed about was there s a lot of immaturity and petty gamesmanship that goes on, and it kind of reminds me of how high school teenagers act.
She went on to say, It s very dangerous when we have people in positions of leadership who use their power to try to quiet those who disagree with them.
When I signed up to be vice chair of the D.N.C., no one told me I would be relinquishing my freedom of speech and checking it at the door.
Last month, Sanders was endorsed by former head of the DNC, Mark Kirk.Image credit video screen capture from Meet The Press on Twitter