Rachel Maddow decided to scrap a segment and go off-script to warn her viewers about Lieutenant General Michael Flynn.
Donald Trump has offered Flynn the position of National Security Advisor and the MSNBC host finds this revelation too worrying to put off discussing.
At this point in the show, I had something else we were going to cover, but I scrapped it because there s a thing I feel like I need to say about the Mike Flynn security announcement, Maddow said.Maddow explained that no one, such as Congress, has to approve this appointment in any way.
Trump makes the offer and if Flynn accepts, then boom, it s a done deal.
She then told America just why it is that this is such concerning news.
So, this Mike Flynn thing is done, Maddow explained.
But the choice of Mike Flynn is a different kettle of fish than anything we might have expected from the Trump campaign.
Mike Flynn calls Islam a political ideology hiding behind a religion.
He calls Islam a malignant cancer.
He really did sit next to President Putin and take money to go to a gala.
He s been a frequent guest on Russian state television, and says he sees no difference between Russian state television, and for example, MSNBC.
After laying out her list of reasons why Flynn shouldn t be considered for any government position, let alone at the top of national security, Maddow explained to viewers what he will be doing in this position if he accepts it.
He will now be the closest person to the president on a day-to-day basis on all foreign policy issues, on all military issues, on all national security issues, and he is way outside anything that anybody on the left, right or center might consider to be the mainstream, either in thought or temperament in terms of national security issues, and it s done, Maddow said.Maddow laid out Flynn s shady business dealings with Turkey.
She also slammed his habit of handing out classified information that he wasn t even supposed to have in the first place, which has happened at least twice.
Two former government officials with direct knowledge of the issue tell CNN that while Flynn oversaw intelligence in Afghanistan, he shared classified information with Pakistan on terror networks responsible for killing American troops, CNN recalled this week when Flynn s name was floated.
The intelligence, the sources say, came from another agency.
Flynn wasn t supposed to share it.
They say he was trying to convince Pakistan to stop sheltering terrorists.
Maddow concluded: I know he s not going to get as much coverage as the other people who have to get confirmed over the next few days but stick a pin in that.
It s really, really important.
Watch Rachel Maddow issue her dire warning about Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, here:Featured image via video screen capture