Donald Trump s paranoia and desperation to keep the American people in the dark just took an unconstitutional turn.For weeks, various news outlets have obtained inside information from White House sources such as memos and descriptions of what is going on behind the scenes.
That s how we know about what executive orders Trump is considering and how we know about the chaos and infighting that has been plaguing Trump s administration.
It s also how we know more about Trump s Russia scandal.Rather than address his executive orders or the chaos in the White House or his Russia scandal, Trump would rather whine about the leaks instead.The real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington?
Will these leaks be happening as I deal on N.Korea etc?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 14, 2017Information is being illegally given to the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost by the intelligence community (NSA and FBI?
).Just like Russia Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017The real scandal here is that classified information is illegally given out by intelligence like candy.
Very un-American!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017You know what is really un-American?
Forcing your staffers to hand over their phones for an inspection.According to a report by Politico, White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer actually confiscated the phones of his staff to go through them in order to make sure they are not leaking any information to the press.Of course, if someone had refused to hand over their phone they would have more than likely lost their job so they definitely didn t volunteer to give their phones up.
They had to do it out of fear.The staffers were called to an emergency meeting and told to place any electronic device they had on them on a table, including personal cell phones, so they could be searched.But the Constitution specifically bars such illegal searches and seizures.The Fourth Amendment states, The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.
In other words, if Trump really thinks the leaks are illegal, he should have to get a warrant to search the phones of his employees.
But he didn t, which means his search is illegal and in violation of the constitutional rights of his staffers.
Trump and Spicer can hardly call the confiscation voluntary either since many of these staffers probably believed they would be fired if they did not hand over their phones.
That means they were forced to do so, and they can file a lawsuit for having their privacy violated.Once again, Donald Trump and his team are violating the Constitution.
Republicans in Congress cannot continue to allow Trump to trample our constitutional rights.
It s time to investigate and impeach him.
Because at this rate, he ll literally be ripping up the Constitution if he isn t stopped.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images