Trump s newly confirmed Secretary of Housing and Urban Development just dropped a doozy on us.
No, not the one about Harriet Tubman.
This is a new WTF moment for the sleepy-eyed Ben Carson.
In a talk with department employees, Carson referred to slaves as immigrants dreaming of a better life, The Hill reports.
Sure, except slaves didn t want to come to this country.
They had families, homes, a life and a country.
Slaves were shackled and brought to the U.S. in deplorable circumstances, beaten within an inch of their lives.
That s what America is about.
A land of dreams and opportunity, Carson said, while inadvertently touting the very reason we should allow refugees to enter our borders.
There were other immigrants who came here in the bottom of slave ships, worked even longer, even harder for less.
Ben Carson at HUD: There were other immigrants who came here in the bottom of slave ships, worked even longer, even harder for less.
pic.twitter.com/VfH9YCbleM Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 6, 2017 But they, too, had a dream that one day their sons, daughters, grandsons, granddaughters, great-granddaughters might pursue prosperity and happiness in this land, Carson added.Watch:Samuel Jackson weighed in on Carson s comparison:OK!!
Ben Carson .I can't!
Immigrants ?
In the bottom of SLAVE SHIPS??!!
MUTHAFUKKA PLEASE!!
!#dickheadedtom Samuel L. Jackson (@SamuelLJackson) March 6, 2017During his bid for the GOP nomination for president, Carson compared abortion to slavery.
During slavery and I know that s one of those words you re not supposed to say, but I m saying it during slavery, a lot of the slave owners thought that they had the right to do whatever they wanted to the slave, Carson said in October of 2015.
What if the abolitionists had said, I don t believe in slavery, I think it s wrong, but you guys do whatever you want to do?
Carson added.
The retired neurosurgeon does not believe in abortion even in cases of incest or rape.
Abortion is a choice.
Slavery is not.Wow, just wow.
How did this man ever become a neurosurgeon?
You know what slavery was really like?
Slavery.
Slaves did not seek to be imprisoned and they weren t employees.
Geez.Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images