A Florida man recently had a tattoo of Donald Trump inked onto his leg, and the current GOP frontrunner really isn t going to like it.
It s a naked portrait featuring the trust fund tycoon s reportedly tiny manhood.Tattoo artist Spooks Joya, who created the tattoo, spoke to VICE about how the artwork came about, saying in an email: I actually saw the original picture by Illma Gore and thought it was awesome I researched what the piece stood for and couldn t resist not doing it, so I offered to do it for free on anyone who wanted.
It started out as a joke but I was surprised people seriously wanted to get it done.
Men and women.
It was nuts!!
It seems men and women were literally queueing up to pay the ultimate insult to Donald Trump and it really is a monstrosity.
The tattoo is up on the thigh of a man who remains anonymous, but we do have pictures of the tattoo being completed.This might be the appropriate moment to ask: who on earth would do this to themselves?
And WHY?
!For those unaware of the background, Trump has been smarting for a quarter of a century over a slight made against him by journalist Graydon Carter.
The Vanity Fair writer wrote a negative piece on Trump, in which he called him a short-fingered vulgarian .
Last October, Carter published a piece in Vanity Fair entitled: Why Donald Trump Will Always Be a Short-Fingered Vulgarian - in which he detailed Trump s thin-skinned response to the criticism, and his refusal to let the matter go.
He writes:Like so many bullies, Trump has skin of gossamer.
He thinks nothing of saying the most hurtful thing about someone else, but when he hears a whisper that runs counter to his own vainglorious self-image, he coils like a caged ferret.
Just to drive him a little bit crazy, I took to referring to him as a short-fingered vulgarian in the pages of Spy magazine.
That was more than a quarter of a century ago.
To this day, I receive the occasional envelope from Trump.
There is always a photo of him generally a tear sheet from a magazine.
On all of them he has circled his hand in gold Sharpie in a valiant effort to highlight the length of his fingers.And so it was, that Trump decided that a Primary debate to decide the Republican nominee for President of the United States, was the appropriate place to brag about the size of his penis.
After Marco Rubio referenced the sight in a March debate, Trump told the crowd: Look at those hands.
Are they small hands?
holding his (admittedly stubby) fingers out towards the audience and the cameras.
He referred to my hands, if they re small, something else must be small.
I guarantee you there s no problem.
I guarantee.
It seems for one person in particular, the comedy pay-off was worth it.Featured Image via Flickr Creative Commons