One of the problems that Republicans have is what to do about the white nationalists that are taking over the conservative movement, including the KKK and the Neo-Nazis that have come out of the woodwork since Trump began his run for the White House.
Some of them are just trying to ignore it, and some are trying to claim that these groups aren t all that bad when you consider that Democrats were once the party of slavery (today s Republicans are those Democrats, actually), so they re the true racists here.And then you have idiots like the executive director of the American Conservative Union, Dan Schneider, who says that the so-called alt-right is really the fascist left.Speaking at CPAC, he told an audience full of conservatives: There is a sinister organization that is trying to worm its way into our ranks and we must not be duped.
Just a few years ago, this hate-filled left-wing fascist group hijacked the very term alt-right.
That term has been used for a long time in a very good and normal way.
He s right, it s a sinister organization trying to worm its way into their ranks.
But it s really a fascist left wing movement?Well, let s look at this.
The alt-right has always been a conservative movement.
It was actually conservative opposition to George W. Bush over his foreign policy.
These were people who believed that W. was a liberal in conservatives clothing who had betrayed them with his policies.They originally had some of everything Reagan Republicans, anti-immigration hawks, libertarians, and even monarchists, and yes, white nationalists.
But it wasn t like the left saw an opening, or saw cracks in the movement, and took advantage of them.
It was Richard Spencer himself who, during his evolution from a conservative into one of the worst white supremacists we ve got, ultimately hijacked the term and turned it into an anti-Semitic, white nationalist movement.But since this movement now has the door it needs to shove itself into the mainstream via President Asterisk, increasing numbers of Republicans are trying to find ways to distance themselves from that kind of hate.
At the same time, some obviously see an opportunity to use it to demonize the left, which riles up a different kind of hate.Schneider also said: They are anti-Semites.
They are racist.
They are sexist.
They hate the Constitution.
They hate free markets.
They hate pluralism.
They hate everything and despite everything we believe in.
All of that is true, but they grew out of the conservative right.
Not the left, but maybe he s another one of the many ignorant conservatives who believe that today s Democrats are the Democrats who fought for slavery.When you have an entire movement willing to tolerate people like Steve Bannon, Milo Yiannopoulos, Steve Miller and even Trump himself, shucking responsibility for that movement is antithetical to the conservative idea of personal responsibility.
The GOP needs to look in a mirror if they want to find an answer to the so-called alt-right.
Featured image by Kirk Irwin via Getty Images for SiriusXM