Billy Joel made a fool of Donald Trump this weekend with a shoutout tribute to the orange man in front of a capacity crowd at Madison Square Garden in New York City.
Trump made a fool of himself shortly thereafter by showing he has no clue what sarcasm is and thanking Joel for the kind gesture:Thank you @BillyJoel many friends just told me you gave a very kind shoutout at MSG.
Appreciate it- love your music!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 28, 2016The very kind shoutout went something like this:Billy Joel dedicated The Entertainer to Donald Trump because he's kept him entertained these past couple of months Emma (@Emma_S12) May 28, 2016That s right the tribute to Trump was The Entertainer, which if Trump actually liked Joel s music he would know was a shot at his farce of a candidacy.
The iconic song includes the lyrics:I am the entertainer And I know just where I stand Another serenader And another long-haired band Today I am your champion I may have won your hearts But I know the game, you ll forget my name And I won t be here in another year If I don t stay on the chartsI am the entertainer And I ve had to pay my price The things I did not know at first I learned by doin twice Ah, but still they come to haunt me Still they want their say So I ve learned to dance with a hand in my pants I let em rub my neck and I write em a check And they go their merry wayI am the entertainer Been all around the world I ve played all kinds of palaces And laid all kinds of girls I can t remember faces I don t remember names Ah, but what the hell You know it s just as well Cause after a while and a thousand miles It all becomes the sameIt s a song about the trials and tribulations of being in the business of entertaining people, you twit.
Billy Joel just thanked you for keeping him entertained, not for inspiring him or making him believe you were good for anything else.
The song is a testament to the futility of your existence because unlike Billy Joel, you have zero talent and nothing worthwhile to offer anyone.This wasn t the first time Joel has made the joke, either.
Remember when Trump thought it was hilarious that New York State Of Mind was dedicated to Ted Cruz?
He failed to recognize that Billy had also dedicated a song to him in Denver.
Which song?
The Entertainer, of course:This is also not the first time @billyjoel has made this joke https://t.co/52fPgijHDH pic.twitter.com/F7eZoaEWO8 Oliver Darcy (@oliverdarcy) May 28, 2016It s good to know a man just a few million votes from access to our nuclear arsenal has a hard time understanding basic humor.
It should make critical foreign policy negotiations a hoot.Featured image by Mike Coppola/Getty Images