While having a third independent option for president is surely a democratic thing to do, the implications surrounding someone like former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg jumping into the race are huge.What would Bloomberg running as an independent on the ticket mean?
Well, it would pull votes from a major party candidate, and in this election, that candidate will be the Democratic one.
Because while Bloomberg could appeal to wealthy conservatives, he s staunchly pro-heavy gun regulations, which will turn the remainder of the Republican base off in a heart beat.
So, any votes he pulls will be from moderate to right-leaning Democrats, as well as independents who may be leaning towards the Democratic candidate.
This is especially true if Bernie Sanders is the nominee and people are apprehensive about a Democratic Socialist in the White House.
However, it d be true of Hillary Clinton as well.So with the center votes missing from the Democratic candidate, and surely not enough votes for Bloomberg taken from either side, this leaves the Republicans with a clear path to victory, and with Donald Trump trouncing his opposition in the polls, we re looking at a Trump presidency.Now, unless Bloomberg has some secret, backdoor deal with Trump that no one is keenly aware of, the former mayor of New York City needs to put his dreams of the Oval Office on the shelf, and likely keep them there for good.
The last thing this nation needs is a President Trump.
A person, who as president, would alienate not only all the minorities in his own country, but would alienate the United States from the rest of the world.
We d be an embarrassment.
Even more so than when George W. Bush was president.So, please, Bloomberg, if you happen to read this, take all that was just said to heart and think about what you really, truly want for the nation.
If you want President Trump, then by all means, run.
However, if not, please don t. Not just for you and the nation, but for the entire world.Featured image: Flickr/Flickr