Six more women have come forward to allege that they were sexually harassed by Roger Ailes, the chairman of the conservative Fox News Channel.
Ailes is currently the subject of a lawsuit from former Fox anchor Gretchen Carlson, who alleges that he demoted her after she rebuffed a sexual advance and complained about a sexist work environment.New York magazine is reporting on the new allegations, in which two women have gone on the record while the remaining four are making their claims anonymously at the moment.Kelli Boyle, a former field adviser for the Republican National Committee, says that she went to dinner with Ailes in 1989 when he then propositioned her: He had a driver and a car, and after dinner he said, Can I take you to your friend s?
So we get in the car and that s when he said, You know if you want to play with the big boys, you have to lay with the big boys.
I was so taken aback.
I said, Gosh I didn t know that.
How would that work?
I was trying to kill time because I didn t know if he was going to attack me.
I was just talking until I could get out of the car.
He said, That s the way it works, and he started naming other women he s had.
He said that s how all these men in media and politics work everyone s got their friend.
Boyle then says Ailes told her she would have to give oral sex every once in a while.
She then found herself frozen out of a job offer and says Ailes told her that her refusal to accept advances had a role in being turned down.
Boyle also says that a friend high up in the Republican Party said, Word went out you weren t to be hired.
Marsha Callahan, a former model, said she had an encounter with Ailes when he was producing The Mike Douglas Show.
Callahan alleges that when she went to his office Ailes told her, Sit on the sofa and lift your skirt up and that he d put me on the show but I needed to go to bed with him.
A model going by the pseudonym Susan said Ailes met with her in his office when she was sixteen years old on the same show and proceeded to pull down his pants and very gingerly pull out his genitals and said, Kiss them.
Jane, a model, said in 1984 that in an interview Ailes pulled out a garter belt and stockings and told me to put them on and After that, something sexual took place, but I blocked it out of my mind.
I don t know if I engaged with him orally or he engaged with himself.
I felt I was being used for his sexual satisfaction.
Diane, a media consultant, said Ailes grabbed me and had his hands on me and he forced me to kiss him.
When I recoiled he said, Well, you know no girls get a job here unless they re cooperative.
Pat, a former TV producer said she had an interview with Ailes at his apartment at Central Park South.
She claims, I don t remember his exact words, but his message was: If you want to make it in New York City in the TV business, you re going to have to fuck me, and you re going to do that with anyone I tell you to.
Ailes denies the allegations from Carlson and his lawyers filed a motion on Friday that would take testimony and findings related to Carlson s allegations out of the public eye.Fox s parent company, Rupert Murdoch s 21st Century Fox, said they were conducting and internal review of the allegations against Ailes.Featured images via YouTube/YouTube