Democrats are taking action to keep Donald Trump away from documents related to the investigation of his possible collusion with Russia to steal the presidential election.
Following the firing of FBI Director James Comey, top ranking members of the Judiciary Committee sent a letter to the Justice Department urging the FBI to retain all Russia investigation documents and not share them with the Trump administration.
It was brazen, one of the most staggering, stunning acts of a president compromising an investigation, Sen. Richard Blumenthal, said.Trump s decision to fire Comey (the person who just happened to be investigating him) is being compared to Richard Nixon s Saturday Night Massacre and Democrats have called his actions Nixonian, mind-boggling and a cover-up.
If there was any question about the need for a special prosecutor, there is none now, Blumenthal said.
They fired Sally Yates.
They fired Preet Bharara.
And now they fired Director Comey, the very man leading the investigation.
This does not seem to be a coincidence, Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said.
Comey was scheduled to testify on Thursday but what will happen now that he is no longer heading up the FBI remains to be seen.
I doubt if he ll attend on Thursday but it is still my strong desire to have now-former director Comey to come and testify before the committee, Sen. Mark Warner said.Comey has indeed been invited to testify as a private citizen, although he has not yet accepted the offer.
If he were to do so, and it was a closed-door hearing, he would be free to provide much more information now that he is not the director of the FBI.
And this could prove disastrous for Trump.Hopefully, the FBI and the DOJ do as the Democrats are asking and keep these vital documents pertaining to the Russia investigation safe from not only the White House but Attorney General Jeff Sessions as well.
Trump and his crooked cronies certainly aren t afraid of trying to make the evidence of their collusion disappear.
They are in so deep that they will stop at nothing to escape the inevitable consequences that are coming.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images