A customer at a New Orleans Family Dollar store was forced to endure a bigoted, anti-LGBT rant by a cashier on Friday, turning what should have been an ordinary shopping trip into a nightmare.Melissa Langford was simply minding her own business when she heard the cashier making a not-so-subtle announcement that she hated gay people.
Langford recalled the experience on Facebook: It started off with the cashier loudly voicing her opinion on how much she hates gay people.
After five or six minutes (or at least it felt like that long) of listening to her yell and preach to each customer about how gay people need to get the fuck , they got somethin wrong in they head, *edit* that she had the right to refuse service to anyone she wants, gays are sick etc.
Hearing this level of bigotry and hate broke Langford s heart, and she quickly became emotional and decided to speak up.
I started to writhe away internally.
I wanted to cry right then and there.
In fact, I m crying right now cuz yall didn t hear the hateful passion in her voice.
She was so loud, so cruel, so uneducated selfish and just outright mean anyways .I spoke up.I said, excuse me, but im very very gay and you re really offending me.
Think what u want but keep it to yourself.
And then, the cashier flipped out.
While carrying on her homophobic rant, the woman behind the counter refused to serve Langford, and even denied service to the customer in front of her because they were both defending the rights of the LGBT community.
At this point, Langford began recording the encounter with her cell phone.
Langford said that when she started filming, the cashier calmed down slightly, as far as leaving the counter and goin by the exit just to not serve my gay ass.
In the video, you can see the chaos unfold as Langford and the other customer argue with the cashier.
You can hear the man in front of Langford shouting You ignorant!
Why are you going to hate on people for who they are, and they re spending their money here just like everybody else?
as the cashier continues to refuse service and rail against gay people.Here s what Langford was able to record:The encounter devastated Langford.
She said: Im really upset.
This is the worst antigay s t ive ever had to deal with in my 34 years.
In the interview below, Langford shares her feelings on the awful incident: Featured image is a screenshot Now Langford wants an apology, but she hasn t gotten it yet.
She had contacted Family Dollar headquarters, but hasn t gotten a response.
According to NOLA.com, a manager at the store refused to do something about the cashier s behavior and said I can t control nothing.
[The employee] can say and do what she wants.
Hopefully now that Langford s video and post has been shared thousands of times, the store will be forced to do something about this cashier s horrendous behavior.
Featured image via screenshots