President Trump is not giving ABC News a pass for their fake news story about Michael Flynn and his meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak when Trump was a candidate running for office.
The President is suggesting that ABC News needs to be held accountable for the drop in the Stock Market that was triggered by their fake news story.
Trump tweeted: People who lost money when the Stock Market went down 350 points based on the False and Dishonest reporting of Brian Ross of @ABC News (he has been suspended), should consider hiring a lawyer and suing ABC for the damages this bad reporting has caused many millions of dollars!People who lost money when the Stock Market went down 350 points based on the False and Dishonest reporting of Brian Ross of @ABC News (he has been suspended), should consider hiring a lawyer and suing ABC for the damages this bad reporting has caused many millions of dollars!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2017Here is a screen grab of the Brian Ross bombshell story that appeared on the ABC News Twitter account, stating that Michael Flyyn promised full cooperation to the Mueller team and is prepared to testify that as a candidate, Donald Trump directed him to make contact with the Russians.
that has now been deleted.
There s a big difference between candidate Trump and President-elect Trump.After ABC News broke the General Flynn-Trump story, the stock market began its freefall.Americans were stunned by the news, and the media, who s been searching for blood in the water since Trump s inauguration, was in a feeding frenzy over the prospect of President Trump being caught directing General Flynn to meet with the Russians when he was actively campaigning.
As it turns out, ABC News got it wrong.
But no worries, several hours later, they clarified how the story should have read, and then later, after ABC News was getting destroyed on social media for their reckless reporting of fake news, they changed their clarification to a correction .
Here are side-by-side screen grabs of the tweets by ABC News: ABC News announced today, that they were suspending Brian Ross for 4 weeks over his horrendous error that caused Americans to lose millions in the stock market.
4 weeks?.
@ABC News statement on Michael Flynn report: https://t.co/sd9TeFiiLQ pic.twitter.com/UtHFHeuwcM ABC News (@ABC) December 2, 2017President Trump responded to the news of Brian Ross suspension with a brutal tweet to ABC: Congratulations to @ABC News for suspending Brian Ross for his horrendously inaccurate and dishonest report on the Russia, Russia, Russia Witch Hunt.
More Networks and papers should do the same with their Fake News!
Congratulations to @ABC News for suspending Brian Ross for his horrendously inaccurate and dishonest report on the Russia, Russia, Russia Witch Hunt.
More Networks and papers should do the same with their Fake News!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2017