Fox News host Eric Bolling wants mean Republicans to just leave his favorite candidate, Donald Trump, alone.
Bolling, the host of the Fox weekend business news show Cashin In, released a special message on the Saturday edition of the program timed to coincide with the upcoming South Carolina primary.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0f8QbU8YMdMBolling, who also co-hosts The Five during the week, noted that the Our Principles Republican super PAC headed by former Romney aide Katie Packer is targeting Trump.
The ads show that on a number of issues, Trump has flip-flopped from a moderate/liberal position to positions designed to pander to conservative Republican voters.
Abortion, health care, and taxes are among Trump s flip-flops.While you would think Bolling, a conservative, would be happy to see an expose of Trump s fakery, his problem is actually with the ad itself.In his rant, Bolling complains about establishment Republicans consistently tearing down conservatives, as he sees it, and points out that he believes the PAC ad is a part of this sustained campaign.He calls on the ad makers to stop going after the reality star turned Republican presidential front-runner and racial demagogue.
Bolling, speaking to the camera, told the PAC that Trump s not your problem.
Liberals and socialists are.
He suggests that instead Why not use that Super PAC money to expose the dark underbelly of liberal politics?
Bolling s suggestion is humorous because he effectively works for the biggest anti-liberal Super PAC around, Fox News.
His network is a steady stream of lies, half-truths, and propaganda designed to attack the Democratic Party and the left.
At the same time, actual super PACs on the right and other dark money groups designed to shield their donors are consistently the source of propaganda campaigns against the left.
The Koch Brothers preside over a network that some believe could spend $1 billion in 2016 in order to elect a Republican president and congress.Fox has been the premiere media vehicle for Trump.
He has received more airtime on the network than any other candidate, and even when feuding with Fox host Megyn Kelly, he still got coverage on their prime time programming.
Of those at Fox, Bolling has been one of the staunchest supporters and defenders of Trump s campaign for months now, and according to a report he was directly ordered to back Trump by Fox News boss Roger Ailes.Featured image via YouTube