On Tuesday, April 5th, the Daily Show with Trevor Noah surfaced a 1994 video clip from the show, Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.
The host of the show asked Donald Trump and his wife at the time, Marla Maples, about their hopes for their 1-year-old baby daughter.
Donald Trump s response was totally creepy.
Well, I think that she s got a lot of Marla, she s a really beautiful baby, and she s, uh, she s got Marla s legs.
We don t know whether or not she s got this part yet, Trump said regarding his wife s chest, but time will tell.
His wife at the time nervously laughed at Donald Trump s inappropriate comment.The Daily Show aired this clip in a line with several other overtly sexist comments Donald Trump has made about women.
In addition to his abrasive relationship with Fox News Host Megyn Kelly, the current Republican front runner for the presidential nomination has criticized former Republican candidate Carly Fiorina for her looks, condescendingly belittled other reporters, made sexist remarks towards Hillary Clinton, Arianna Huffington Heidi Klum, his ex-wives, women on his TV show, Celebrity Apprentice, and countless others.In 2013, he tweeted that women should expect sexual assault in the military, and wrote in a book published in 2006 women are basically objects meant to look good.
Beauty and elegance, whether in a woman, a building, or a work of art, is not just superficial or something pretty to see, he wrote.Donald Trump s record of overt sexism is endless and spans his entire life in the public eye.
He can t seem to get through an interview without making some sort of sexist remark or conclusion, and the scariest part is millions of his supporters agree and applaud every single word he says.
The fight for gender equality still has many obstacles to overcome and the condoning of Donald Trump s behavior by his supporters and those in the media who don t bother to acknowledge and criticize it bring those obstacles out into the open for the public to see.
As feminists, which every Democrat should consider themselves to be, we need to ensure sexism isn t dismissed or neglected as acceptable or commonplace, rather these sexists, especially ones with such a platform as Donald Trump, need to be engaged and held accountable for their remarks.Featured image courtesy of Flickr