Donald Trump supporter Scott Baio has filed a police report against the wife of the Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Chad Smith.
According to TMZ, the one-time child actor, now a huge Trump supporter, says Nancy Mack attacked him at an elementary school function over his support for the president-elect.The alleged incident happened on December 10 but TMZ reported it on December 15.Consequence of Sound reports:Baio told law enforcement that the incident occurred at a school event on Saturday in Thousand Oaks, California when Mack, who is staunchly anti-Trump, began berating and cursing him over his support of a man who said Grab em by the pussy.
Baio said that Mack asked the washed up actor how he could support a man who said, Grab em by the pussy.
According to Baio, she repeatedly kept saying, Grab em by the pussy even though he had asked her to stop.
Baio told police officers that Mack then attacked him by grabbing underneath his arms and shaking and pushing him.However, Mack said she was merely demonstrating how Donald Trump hugs women, rather than assaulting Baio, according to sources close to the drummer s wife.TMZ further states that the Ventura County Sheriff s Dept.
is investigating the incident and Mack is listed as a battery suspect.In one tweet, Renee Baio, Chachi s wife, said that her husband wasn t hugged but was grabbed by Mack.She also says she s being attacked on social media.
I m not sure why me, my husband or child is getting bashed.
Scott & BB were the victims.
I was a witness.
Hard to stand back & do nothing, she tweeted.
Well, her husband is probably being bashed because he s a moron.
At one point during the presidential campaign cycle, Baio threatened to sue anyone who called him a moron, so naturally, everyone started calling him a moron.
Baio ended up blocking half of Twitter after that.
There s also that time he circulated a meme calling Hillary Clinton a c*nt.
He also thinks President Obama, who identifies as a Christian, is really a Muslim.
Clearly, we can see why he supports the man-baby president-elect.MOM, a girl beat up Chachi!Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images