Donald Trump must think women are stupid.
Recently, the billionaire s campaign revealed what they pretend is a comprehensive plan to help struggling families after the birth of a child.Sure, Trump has a long and storied history of making sexist remarks about women and generally treating them like trash, but now that he wants to be President, he s going to provide maternity leave.
Of course, his plan is not quite all he and his cohorts pretend it to be.First off, men are left out entirely.
Sure, it s 2016 when sometimes women work and men take care of the children, or there might be a couple of guys bringing a child into the world through one method or another.
Trump s plan, which proposes six weeks of maternity leave and tax credits for stay-at-home mothers, serves only to reinforce the stereotype that a woman s place is in the home cooking dinner and raising the kids and the man s place is to go out and serve as breadwinner.
Stay-at-home fathers, in Trump s world, do not exist and should not even be considered for any tax credits and benefits.Part of the problem is that Trump was famously uninvolved in raising his own children.
I won t do anything to take care of them, he told Howard Stern in 2005.
I ll supply funds and she ll take care of the kids.
It s not like I m gonna be walking the kids down Central Park.
Men simply do not raise children, or so Trump thinks.
And, of course, it s probably best to let him think that in case he spawns more.
Can you imagine how much more f*cked up his kids would be if he took a direct role in raising them?Of course, his thoughts on pregnant women in the workplace aren t very nice, either.
In a 2004 interview with Dateline NBC, the billionaire explained that while pregnancy is a wonderful thing for the woman and her husband (the idea of male same-sex couples does not enter into his mind, of course) it s an inconvenience for the business.
And whether people want to say that or not, the fact is it is an inconvenience for a person that is running a business, he concluded, adding that women should feel like they will be replaced if they do not return to work quickly even if they will not necessarily be replaced.Watch Trump trash female employees who have the audacity to get pregnant below: Featured image via screen capture