A children s home in Oklahoma literally refused to take a donation from a man because he isn t a Christian.The Murrow Indian Children s Home claims to care about helping orphaned children but when Matt Wilbourn tried to make a $100 donation on behalf of the Muskogee Atheist Community an employee called him and rejected his donation.
I filed out the paperwork and I put my wife and I s name on the paperwork, Wilbourn recounted.
At the bottom, it asks if there is any person or organization you want to put it in memory of and I put the Muskogee Atheist Community.
She called my desk phone at work and told me that they would not be accepting our donation because it would go against everything they believe in, he continued.Founded in 1865 by Reverend J.S.
Murrow to take in and care for orphaned Native American children, the home was taken over by the American Baptist Mission Home Societies and moved to Bacone College in Muskogee, where it houses dozens of children in need of a home.In 2014, it was reported that the Murrow Children s Home was in desperate need of supplies including laundry detergent, 13-gallon garbage bags, sandwich bags, one-gallon and quart freezer bags, serving tongs, snacks, toothpaste, band aides, dishwashing soap, napkins, Comet cleaner, Pine Sol, Lysol, bleach, furniture polish and storage bags.
So if any organization needs donations, it s the Murrow Children s Home.
And that s what makes their rejection of Wilbourn s donation so outrageous.He donated $100, which would go a long way toward purchasing many of the items on that list.But his donation was rejected simply because he isn t a Christian, which makes one wonder just exactly what the Murrow Children s Home employees are teaching the kids in their care.Undeterred, Wilbourn came up with an idea.
In fact, it s a fantastic idea.He decided to start a GoFundMe with the support of the Muskogee Atheist Community to raise more money for the Children s Home to see exactly how much money it will take for them to ignore his non-belief and accept the donation.But it appears the Murrow Home cares more about religion than they do about making sure the children have everything they need.
I emailed the director of the Murrow Home and told her that I m raising the amount to $250, Wilbourn said.
No reply from her.
So far, the GoFundMe has raised a whopping $5,612 and the Murrow Home still won t accept because Wilbourn and his group are atheists.
It s taken food off their plate, clothes off their back and shelter over their heads, Wilbourn said.It s truly sad that an organization would reject perfectly good donations just because the person doing the giving is not a Christian.
That amounts to stealing from children.
The Murrow Home is a non-profit so clearly they are only able to care for children solely out of the kindness of people who open their wallets and donate money.
The Bible says judge not lest ye be judged and there s this part called the Golden Rule that commands us to treat people the way we want to be treated.
Thus far, the Christians at the Murrow Home have failed to adhere to both.
They judged Wilbourn to be a bad person because he s an atheist and even when he treated them with kindness and generosity the Murrow Home continued to do the opposite to him.Frankly, it sounds like these kids need new caretakers because the Murrow Home is clearly failing them and their best interests.To contact the Murrow Home, visit their Facebook page.To contribute to the GoFundMe, click here.
Because even if the Murrow Home rejects the amount raised, it will still go toward a great cause called Camp Quest, which is a non-religious summer camp for kids.Murrow Home ought to be ashamed of themselves for choosing bigotry and hate over the well-being of the kids they claim to care about.Featured Image: Facebook