Donald Trump hasn t even stepped into office yet and he has already managed to fill his cabinet with the richest people ever to self-serve in that position, start an international incident with China, hire multiple white supremacists and other assorted bigots to top-level positions, and generally show us that the next four years will be a test of all that we are as Americans and the city of San Fransisco has already made it clear where they stand.Just before Thanksgiving, the city s Board of Supervisors released an 11-point resolution telling Donald Trump that his hateful ideals are not welcome.
The resolution reminds Trump and other assorted bigots that the city stands with the LGBT community, women, Muslims (including refugees) and people of all religions, African-Americans, and every other group sure to be marginalized and harassed under the Trump administration:WHEREAS, On November 8, 2016, Donald Trump was elected to become the 45th President of the United States; now, therefore, be itRESOLVED, That no matter the threats made by President-elect Trump, San Francisco will remain a Sanctuary City.
We will not turn our back on the men and women from other countries who help make this city great, and who represent over one third of our population.
This is the Golden Gate-we build bridges, not walls; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That we will never back down on women s rights, whether in healthcare, the workplace, or any other area threatened by a man who treats women as obstacles to be demeaned or objects to be assaulted.
And just as important, we will ensure our young girls grow up with role models who show them they can be or do anything; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That there will be no conversion therapy, no withdrawal of rights in San Francisco.
We began hosting gay weddings twelve years ago, and we are not stopping now.
And to all the LGBTQ people all over the country who feel scared, bullied, or alone: You matter.
You are seen; you are loved; and San Francisco will never stop fighting for you; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That we still believe in this nation s founding principle of religious freedom.
We do not ban people for their faith.
And the only lists we keep are on invitations to come pray together; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That Black Lives Matter in San Francisco, even if they may not in the White House.
And guided by President Obama s Task Force on 21st Century Policing, we will continue reforming our police department and rebuilding trust between police and communities of color so all citizens feel safe in their neighborhoods; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That climate change is not a hoax, or a plot by the Chinese.
In this city, surrounded by water on three sides, science matters.
And we will continue our work on CleanPower, Zero Waste, and everything else we are doing to protect future generations; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That we have been providing universal health care in this city for nearly a decade, and if the new administration follows through on its callous promise to revoke health insurance from 20 million people, San Franciscans will be protected; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That we are the birthplace of the United Nations, a city made stronger by the thousands of international visitors we welcome every day.
We will remain committed to internationalism and to our friends and allies around the world-whether the administration in Washington is or not; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That San Francisco will remain a Transit First city and will continue building Muni and BART systems we can all rely upon, whether this administration follows through on its platform to eliminate federal transit funding or not; and, be itThe San Francisco Board of Supervisors is determined to maintain the safety and values of the city.FURTHER RESOLVED, That California is the sixth largest economy in the world.
The Bay Area is the innovation capital of the country.
We will not be bullied by threats to revoke our federal funding, nor will we sacrifice our values or members of our community for your dollar; and, be itFURTHER RESOLVED, That we condemn all hate crimes and hate speech perpetrated in this election s wake.
That although the United States will soon have a President who has demonstrated a lack of respect for the values we hold in the highest regard in San Francisco, it cannot change who we are, and it will never change our values.
We argue, we campaign, we debate vigorously within San Francisco, but on these points we are 100 percent united.
We will fight discrimination and recklessness in all its forms.
We are one City.
And we will move forward together.Dark times are ahead for our country something even once stalwart Trump supporter Sarah Palin is quickly realizing after The Donald s deal with Carrier to save 1,000 jobs by handing out gigantic tax breaks as a reward for threatening to move a plant to Mexico.Every city needs to follow this example, as it is up to each and every one of us to preserve what America is about Trump will not, after all.Featured image via Getty Images/Chip Somodevilla