Donald Trump showed up at Arlington National Cemetery to give the Memorial Day address, but things got a bit weird when the National Anthem played.As others stood with their hands over their hearts or saluting a sign of respect for our fallen soldiers Trump apparently became confused, thought he was at a baseball game, and began emphatically belting out the lyrics with a smile on his face as the music to the National Anthem played.Trump is super extra during the national anthem, almost like he's overcompensating for something.
pic.twitter.com/nioZnxYRUo Lauren Werner (@LaurenWern) May 29, 2017You know who wasn t smiling?
Literally everyone who watched Trump spit in the face of people who lost their lives serving our country.
@bessbell Did he yell out Play Ball!
at the end?
Jaime Robledo (@Roblizzle) May 29, 2017@bessbell I resist this man as a human being.
Inquisitive One (@Most_Nquisitive) May 29, 2017@bessbell What a way to spit in the faces of those who died while in the service of our country.
Ross H. Hockman (@TheRossHockman) May 29, 2017@bessbell Wow, the imagery here is strikingly buffoonish.
Darren L (@darren04) May 29, 2017@bessbell Looks like the medication just kicked in.
Carol Marie (@NastyCarol3) May 29, 2017@bessbell More evidence of dementia.
My granny used to sing along like this at inappropriate times too.
Kelly D (@KellylovesCO) May 29, 2017@bessbell It s not a baseball game Christopher Lonigro (@CClonigro) May 29, 2017@bessbell That s his solemn and respectful look?
Hollywood Wrecker (@HollywoodWreck) May 29, 2017@bessbell It looks like he completely forgot why he is there.
RedWillow (@elliput) May 29, 2017Recently, Trump became confused during a press conference with Israeli war criminal, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and wandered off.
He had to have someone fetch him and bring him back.It is unclear if Trump has inherited his father s Alzheimer s disease or if he is feeling the strain of his impending impeachment and possible imprisonment (his tweets make it clear that the Russia investigation is getting to him) maybe he just is completely unwilling to show respect but one thing is clear: something is very clearly wrong here.Featured image via screengrab