The View s Joy Behar just let everyone know that she s a sore loser who just can t let go that Hillary Clinton lost the 2016 election.
Even though she refuses to acknowledge Trump as president and says Hillary won, she told The View audience that she wore a black veil when Clinton lost indicating that she was in mourning.
So which is it?She represents all of those on the left so well.
She s STILL bitter and in denial over the loss.
What a waste of time and energy to be part of the resistance to President Trump.She gets into it with co-host Meghan McCain over it: She did win and I m not going to give that up.
The segment started with a Hot Topics discussion of Sen. John McCain s (R., Ariz.) interview with Esquire magazine where he trashed Clinton s post-election book.
He sat down for an interview with Esquire, and he would like Hillary Clinton to hush.
Because he says he felt it was a mistake for her to write a book so soon after she lost and that he learned after his loss the hardest thing to do is just shut up.
Now, is he right?, co-host Whoopi Goldberg asked her fellow hosts.
With all due respect to your father and whom I like very much, I think he s wrong, Behar said toward McCain.
I think a woman s place is in the resistance.
The woman won the election.
Behar s comment was met with audience applause and cheers.
What I think I could get on board with if she wrote it and got it out but maybe waited to release it so it becomes more historical.
Because I think the optics of looking at someone that s lost whether you agree with them, and I voted for her, or not it looks bad when you didn t win and you re talking, co-host Sara Haines said.
She did win, Behar interjected.
She did win and I m not going to give that up.
She didn t win, McCain retorted.
She won the popular vote, co-host Sonny Hostin said.Behar continued to argue with McCain that Clinton won the election.
But we don t elect presidents in America with the popular vote, McCain said.
I get that.
But the numbers are still there, Behar replied.
Does that make you feel good at night when you re so angry about Trump, does that make you feel better?
McCain quipped.
No, it doesn t, Behar said.Behar then admitted she work a black veil when Trump beat Hillary.McCain recounted the night her father lost to President Barack Obama in 2008, expressing the extent to which she understands the difficulties of losing an election.
Because you were up close and personal when your father didn t win the election, Hostin said.
And I ve been there on election nights for other candidates who have wanted it and it s deeply sad.
On election night we prayed and my father told me to buck up, we re the most blessed people in the world.
And then, we didn t complain about it.
We as a family recognized President Obama as the phenomenon that he was, McCain said.
Whether or not you like it, President Trump is a populist phenomenon in a completely different way.
And I think if I were you, and I m part of the resistance, I would look forward to new leadership.