While the controversy over Trump s personal tax returns continues, business credit rating company Nav decided to take a look at his business credit, and published the results on their website.
Nav, which actually does have an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau (as opposed to Trump U. s final rating), pulled together the factors affecting business credit scores and discovered something truly laughable.The highest possible business score is 100.
The Trump Organization s score is 19.
Nineteen.
As in more than 15 but less than 20, and it s actually dropped 18 points.
This puts the company in the medium to high-risk category:The organization is considered highly likely to default on its debts, and it averages sending payments 17 days late.
They also have six derogatories, which can be delinquent loans that have been turned over to collections, as well as tax liens and judgments against the organization.
According to Nav, that last one usually means the business was the defendant in a lawsuit and is now required to pay damages to the plaintiff.Compare that to the Clinton Foundation, which has a score of 42.
42 isn t great, but it s a hell of a lot better than the Trump Organization s.*Note: The Clinton Foundation has been around since 1997, but has only been known in its current form for the last three years.Despite not having stellar credit either, the Clinton Foundation also has no derogatories and makes its payments on time.This whole thing is laughable considering the wonderful businessman Trump seems to think he is.
It s even more laughable considering that Trump says nobody knows debt better than he does.
In August, he boasted that he has very little debt relative to his assets.Regardless of whether that s true, the fact that the Trump Organization s credit score is so low suggests that Trump is either not nearly as good at managing what debt he does have as well as he claims, or he s not nearly as good at managing his businesses as well as he claims.This credit score is hilarious.Featured image by Scott Olson via Getty Images