It s been a lousy 24 hours for Donald Trump s campaign to Make America Great Hate Again what with President Obama giving a zero f*cks left State of the Union Address that reminded the nation of the real gap between conservative and liberal politics.
It s the difference between voting for Project Fear or Project Hope.So, how did Donald Trump respond to the State of the Union address?
Did he point out any errors in the president s arguments of fact?
Did he share a hopeful and ambitious dream for America which we could all get behind?
Did he acknowledge the achievements of the president, but call for greater progress?Sadly, Trump did none of those.
Instead, he reacted like an overstimulated, under-achieving fourth-grader.
Remember the ultimate fourth grade put down to a teacher or authority figure?
The feigned yawn and sleep?
You re so dull you ve put me to sleep, Sir.Well, that was Trump s response to the 2016 State of the Union speech.The #SOTU speech is really boring, slow, lethargic very hard to watch!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 13, 2016Apparently, there were too many grown up words for Trump to follow in this political event.
He clearly got so bored that he stopped watching and decided to punch his GOP classmate in the arm to distract himself for a moment.Just found out that @tedcruz is spending a fortune on Iowa push polls negative to me.
Not nice, but OK!
New polls are great.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 13, 2016By the time he came back, the speech was over and he felt the need to pass comment.
Although it must be said, he may well have just passed wind.The State Of The Union speech was one of the most boring, rambling and non-substantive I have heard in a long time.
New leadership fast!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 13, 2016And with that, he ran out to the playground to pull on the pigtails of the girl he rather fancies but stands zero chance with.Numerous polls have me beating Hillary Clinton.
In a race with her, voter turnout will be the highest in U.S. history-I get most new voters!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 13, 2016Like any fourth-grader who can t compete in the spelling bee, or get the girl, Trump returns to the common role of playground bully.
He decides that he s not satisfied with just punching that GOP classmate in the arm, so goes back to kick him in the shins too.Sadly, there is no way that Ted Cruz can continue running in the Republican Primary unless he can erase doubt on eligibility.
Dems will sue!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 13, 2016We ve already learned that Trump speaks at a fourth-grade level, but it looks like maybe he is just a spoiled man-child in every way that matters?
America, there s a reason U.S. Presidents need to be aged 35 or over maybe we should have specified that was mental age too.Featured Image via Flickr