The main stream media is all aflutter this morning with the news that someone connected to President Trump has been indicted.
What they aren t telling you is what s more important.
A CNN anchor gave a report this morning and not until the end of the report did she say that she should mention that this really has nothing to do with President Trump.Paul Manafort and longtime associate Rick Gates have been told to surrender to federal authorities What the media isn t telling you is that the charges are from before Manafort worked for Trump.
Let s hope Trump fires Mueller ASAP this is a witch hunt that needs to end The 12 counts are for money laundering and not registering as a foreign agent when Manafort worked for pro-Russian forces in the Ukraine BEFORE they worked for the Trump campaign.Manafort was seen leaving his home this morning and then entering the FBI building with his lawyer:Former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort told to turn himself in today: Report https://t.co/Upf5gTqiQp pic.twitter.com/4cx3TFTgVV Fox News (@FoxNews) October 30, 2017Manafort entering the FBI offices with his lawyer:Ex-Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort walks into FBI office; surrendering to feds in connection to Russia probe https://t.co/B2d9RX5PsV pic.twitter.com/piMhgnKNOY ABC News (@ABC) October 30, 2017FOX NEWS IS REPORTING: Former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his associate Rick Gates were reportedly told to surrender to federal authorities as part of the special counsel s investigation into Russian meddling and potential collusion with Trump campaign officials during the 2016 presidential election.JEFFREY TOOBIN: Trump campaign not mentioned in Manafort indictmentAccording to the New York Times, Manafort and Gates will face the first charges in the special counsel s investigation, though the charges are not immediately clear.Gates is a longtime associate of Manafort.
According to the Times, his name appeared on documents linked to companies that Manafort s firm created in Cyprus to receive payments from politicians and businesspeople in Eastern Europe.Mr.
Manafort had been under investigation for violations of federal tax law, money laundering and whether he appropriately disclosed his foreign lobbying.
Mr. Manafort has expected charges since this summer, when F.B.I.
agents raided his home and prosecutors warned him that they planned to indict him.
That warning raised speculation that Mr. Manafort might try to cut a deal to avoid prosecution.Mr.
Trump s lawyer, Ty Cobb, said there were no concerns that Mr. Manafort would offer damaging information about the president in exchange for a deal.Some close to Mr. Manafort, including his former business partner Roger J.
Stone Jr., have said he had nothing to offer that would help prosecutors build a case against Mr. Trump.
He s not going to lie, Mr. Stone said in September.Mr.
Manafort, a veteran Republican strategist, joined the Trump campaign in March 2016 to help keep delegates from breaking with Mr. Trump in favor of establishment Republican candidates.
Mr. Trump soon promoted him to chairman and chief strategist, a job that gave him control over day-to-day operations of the campaign.But Mr. Trump fired Mr. Manafort just months later, after reports that he received more than $12 million in undisclosed payments from Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former Ukrainian president and a pro-Russia politician.
Mr. Manafort spent years as a political consultant for Mr. Yanukovych.