Bee stings can have an impact ranging from mild swelling to death, depending on if the victim is allergic and the degree of the allergy.
On Friday, a swarm of Africanized honey bees killer bees attacked a group of people in Phoenix, Arizona, stinging more than 20 unfortunate individuals.
Normally, a bee attack would not be national news, but it happened to Muslims who were worshipping at a mosque, so Fox News was all over it.The bees descended on the mosque, sending at least one man to the hospital.
firefighters fortunately arrived early enough to spray mounds of foam to get the bees under control and prevent further injury.
@SKrafftFox10 After a bee stings you its stinger falls out and it dies.Ironic that a group of Muslims were just attacked by Suicide bees.
Libertarian Larry (@Libertarian5000) April 2, 2016 It s always a bad situation when you re talking about Africanized bees, because once one bee creates a pheromone which sends off the other bees to attack, said Joseph Mikesell with Truly Nolen.
It is unclear what set the bees off, but Mikesell warns that if you see bees you should call a professional rather than attempt to deal with a problem yourself.
Experts say that the attack was unsurprising, as it is the height of swarm season.
The attack left numerous prayer rugs and pretty much everything else drenched in foam that members spent an exhorbitant amount of time shoveling out of the mosque with whatever they could find, Fox 10 s Marcy Jones, who called the prayer rugs oriental, reported.
She warns people not to wear black, red, or yellow because the bees might think that you are a bear and become more aggressive around you.It s fortunate that no one was hurt too seriously, but when Fox News Insider posted this important national story on Facebook, readers reacted exactly how one would expect people who have been groomed by Stupidville to react with utter glee.Some declared this to be God s judgement on the followers of Allah, completely ignorant that Allah is simply Arabic for God and the two religions actually worship the same deity.
Others publicly wished that some of the Muslims injured in the attack had died.
Some wanted more bees.
The Stupid Part of America completely outdid themselves as they referenced Biblical plagues (because a swarm of bees is totally like a plague of locusts, while others seized upon the opportunity to tell each other how much they hate Muslims.In short, finding out about this bee attack was the best thing that happened to many conservatives this week: This is Trump s America, folks.
The supposed Christian Right is so wrapped up in hate that they are unable to show a shred of compassion when a group of people are attacked by a tiny-yet-deadly creature all because they believe their imaginary friend is better than the other, who is actually the same guy.Watch a report on the attack below:Featured image via screengrab