As Donald Trump has turned his presidency into an all out war against the mainstream media, the media is finding heroes in strange places namely Fox News, without whose propaganda we likely would never had had even a candidate Trump let alone the new occupant of the White House.Last week, after Trump s disastrous press conference in which he attacked the media, and especially CNN, Fox s Shep Smith had an eight minute rant defending the media and calling out Trump for his lies.
Listen to it if you haven t already.
It s amazing.A week has passed and Trump hasn t let up on the media.
On Friday, he went so far as to call the media the enemy of the people, and he vowed to do something about it.
That s beyond dangerous.
It s dictator 101.Oh, but it got worse on Friday a lot worse.
The White House, in an unprecedented move, banned several news outlets from the briefing room.Shortly after Mr Trump s speech on Friday, a number of selected media organisations were invited into Mr Spicer s office for an informal briefing, or gaggle .Those allowed into the room included ABC, Fox News, Breitbart News, Reuters and the Washington Times.When asked why some were excluded, Mr Spicer said it was his decision to expand the pool of reporters.He also warned the White House was going to aggressively push back at false narratives in the news.Politico, Buzzfeed and the Daily Mail were also left out, but CNN was the only major US television network to be denied entry.Source: BBCSmith is not happy.
He once again called out Trump and this time, told him exactly what fake news means.For the report, fake news refers to stories that are created by entities pretended to be news organizations and based on nothing of substance.
Fake news is made up nonsense delivered for financial gain.
CNN s reporting was not fake news.
Its journalistics followed the same standards that other organizations, including Fox News, adhere.
Senior administration officials regularly speak without attribution so that the public needs to be informed of what our government is doing off the record.Source: MediaiteHere s the video: Even other Fox personalities were upset with the ban:Some at CNN & NYT stood w/FOX News when the Obama admin attacked us & tried 2 exclude us-a WH gaggle should be open to all credentialed orgs https://t.co/8Vjcs0KCPR Bret Baier (@BretBaier) February 24, 2017IF true that @SeanSpicer & #WH are banning certain disfavored news organizations All must refuse to play along.
It s censorship.
Who s next?
Geraldo Rivera (@GeraldoRivera) February 24, 2017The Rupert Murdoch owned Wall Street Journal even objected:WSJ says they would not have participated in gaggle had they known of the blocking of others and said they won t in future pic.twitter.com/Osef9I0XPx Hadas Gold (@Hadas_Gold) February 24, 2017This ploy is sure to backfire on Trump.
In just over 30 days, Trump has demonstrated that he s hiding a lot, beginning with his tax returns and his relationship with Russia.
The media will win this war and Trump will go down hard, if not in handcuffs.
Before that happens, though, we can t let Trump control the country s dialogue.
That s what dictators do.Featured image via video screen capture.