On Wednesday night, Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams took on the absolutely ridiculous bathroom bills that GOP lawmakers have made their focus in their quest to harass and discriminate against the LGBT community.
It seems that the more visibility that the transgender community gets, the more energy Republican legislators put into proposing anti-transgender bills to police what bathrooms they can and can t use.To try to understand exactly why this is, Williams spoke to several trans people and one of their biggest opponents, Chaplain and state Rep. Gordon Klingenschmitt (R-CO).
Williams confronted the transphobic lawmaker about his belief that transgender people are merely confused, and completely destroyed him.
In expressing his asinine and twisted religious beliefs, Klingenschmitt told Williams just why transgender people were such a threat to the rest of the country: They not only want to be confused about their own identity, but they want the rest of us to be confused with them.
Now they want the government to join them on that pretense?
They re making us into liars.
Interesting because when Williams actually asked trans people what they wanted, all they said was respect.
They weren t trying to confuse or trick anyone about their identity, and insisted that their gender identity was not actually a choice (research can confirm this).Klingenschmitt wanted to go more into the discussion of religion, but insisted on changing first.
He said: I would be comfortable talking about religious freedom, but I have to change into my alter ego.
Williams waited for him to transition so he would feel more comfortable during our interview, while Klingenschmitt remained completely clueless to how ironic the situation had become.When Williams questioned Klingenschmitt about why he was so passionate about passing transphobic legislation, he replied: I mean, that is perversion.
It s people who label themselves as transgender for the purpose of getting that access to violate the rights of others.
Williams then targeted his role as a chaplain and asked him, Is it fair to say that if you re a priest you re a pedophile?
Klingenschmitt said no, and Williams asked him why.
He replied: Because some people are criminals, and some people are not criminals.
Klingenschmitt then said he was unable to apply that same logic to the trans community because they re apples and oranges.
Williams was able to gather that Klingenschmitt s concern was that policies allowing trans women to use bathrooms that match their gender identity would result in sexual assault even though there have literally been NO reported instances where sexual assault has happened as a result of this.You can watch her dismantle the GOP s anti-trans panic below:The Daily Show with Trevor Noah Get More: The Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,The Daily Show Video Archive Featured image via screen capture