Ohio Governor and former Republican presidential candidate John Kasich is the one GOP elected official that is still not on the Trump Train.
The other party loyalists have fallen in line, with the occasional criticisms from folks like Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Senator John McCain (R-AZ).
Infamously, Gov.
Kasich did not attend the Republican National Convention even though it was in his home state and he was the sitting Governor.
He also refused to praise or endorse Trump, or demand that others in his party do so.
Now, it seems he may be looking at a way to take his party back from The Donald in 2020.Gov.
Kasich s gubernatorial term will end in 2019, due to term limits.
Therefore, he also will be looking to see what his next project will be.
For now, he has been touring the talk show circuit promoting a book, and that has been the focus of these conversations.
However, a man who was once an aide to 2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney, Ryan Williams, says of Kasich s 2020 prospects: Kasich is kind of in limbo his time as governor will end when he s termed out, he doesn t have a path toward any other office in Ohio, and if Trump runs for reelection, I doubt he ll challenge him.
That, however, does not mean that Kasich won t be throwing his hat into the 2020 ring.
Williams goes on to say: But he s trying to keep his name in the mix in case President Trump decides not to run again He, like many people, was counting on President Trump to lose in November, expecting to occupy a space in the effort to rebuild the party.
But that evaporated the minute Trump won the election.
Still, though, Kasich remains skeptical of Trump as president, and refuses to rule out challenging Trump.
When asked, he ducks the question and essentially says he isn t running right now, he is promoting his book.In short, it seems that Kasich knows that Trump is terrible for the country, and really has no loyalty to the man.
Further, with Trump s increasingly divisive policies and rhetoric continuing to rip at the fabric of the nation, he may feel the obligation to do what he can to unseat Trump in the primary and deny him the nomination a second time.
In fact, when asked, Kasich said: What I m saying is it s unlikely, but I don t know what the future is going to bring for me, or what responsibility or obligation I might feel.
The more Trump rips the nation apart, something tells me that obligation will feel a lot stronger by the time 2020 rolls around if Trump isn t impeached first.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images