Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump emerged victorious in blowout wins in their home state of New York on Tuesday.
In a field of three, Trump managed to capture just over 60 percent while Clinton, in a field of two, captured just under 58 percent.With Clinton and Trump gaining in delegates, it s becoming increasingly likely the two will face off in the November general election (should there be no contested conventions).And if Trump emerges the nominee and so does Clinton, that spells very bad news for the Republicans.Real Clear Politics, which gathers daily polling from multiple sources and finds a median, shows that as more Americans are exposed to Trump s campaign, the more likely they are to back Hillary Clinton.As Vox puts it:This is, according to political scientists, around the time when general election polling becomes predictive of the actual vote.
Were this a few months ago, I d say, What s the big deal?'
Christopher Wlezien, a political science professor who s done a lot of work on election polling, told Vox back in March.
But polls today are much more meaningful than they were 90 days ago.
And the polls today are much less favorable for Trump.
Around this time, Mitt Romney was more popular than Donald Trump is, and he was within 2.5 percent of President Obama who obviously won.
Right now, Clinton is about ten points higher than the Donald.As general election polling becomes more representative of the actual outcome, Vox and Real Clear Politics estimate that at this rate Democrats not only would win the presidency and take back the Senate, they could even take back the House.One reason the Republicans are having such a hard time catching up to Clinton is because they aren t united, and are quite fractured.
Democrats, while having their own differences, are nowhere near the breaking point the Republicans are, and that is a huge advantage heading into the general election.Republicans should be terrified.
If they were smart, they would broker their convention and nominate Kasich, who consistently beats Hillary Clinton in the polls.
But since when has the Republican Party done the smart thing?Years of fear mongering and peppered racism has not, nor will it, pay off for the GOP.
They created this monster, now they have to deal with it.
Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty