Democratic California Rep. Brad Sherman appeared as a guest on Thursday s Tucker Carlson Tonight, and apparently didn t feel like leaving after his segment was over.Sherman and Carlson went back and forth in a heated arguments over new revelations regarding Russian influence via the Podesta Group and the new tax bill.
Sherman also brought up impeaching Donald Trump, something he tried to trigger this summer with his own articles of impeachment.After the segment ended, Carlson began a new segment with Byron York of the Washington Examiner, but Rep. Sherman stuck around, interjecting into the conversation.At the end of Carlson speaking with York, Sherman is still sitting at the other end of the desk, so Tucker invites him to read the teleprompter tease for the next part of the show after the commercial break.Sherman reads it poorly and the show goes to commercials.What a putz!NOT EMBARRASSED?
!SHERMAN S PARTY WAS JUST CAUGHT GIVING MILLIONS FOR OPPOSITION RESEARCH!
ALSO, THE PAY TO PLAY ALLEGATION WITH URANIUM ONE IS EVEN MORE SERIOUS!
Read more: Daily CallerThe mantra we keep hearing coming from Dem leaders is impeach .
The one making the most noise is Maxine Waters:MAXINE WATERS RECENTLY SAID SHE WAS GOING TO TAKE OUT PRESIDENT TRUMP SHE S A FLIP FLOPPER ON IMPEACHMENT: Flip flopping is what Maxine Waters has been doing when it comes to calling for the impeachment of President Trump.
See the video below for just one of many examples of Waters lying through her teeth saying she never called for the impeachment of Trump.
Here she is at a CBC Town Hall revving up the crowd with her phony baloney call for the impeachment of Trump.
We re guessing it all depends on who she s talking to.
Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), who previously has called for the impeachment of Donald Trump, on Thursday told a Congressional Black Caucus Town Hall on Civil Rights that she expects other members of the black community to back her up: Impeachment is about whatever the congress says it is.
Seems as though Maxine Waters is willing to lie to have President Trump impeached.
pic.twitter.com/Jx8A9ShMrK Kyle Morris (@RealKyleMorris) September 21, 2017 Don t come here and tell me, Maxine, you keep on doing what you do.
But when you gonna give me some support?
she asked.
How many of you in your organizations have said, Impeach 45 ?
Waters urged the crowd not to get hung up on what law to invoke in the impeachment process:Impeachment is about whatever the Congress says it is.
There is no law that dictates impeachment.
What the Constitution says is high crimes and misdemeanors, and we define that.Bill Clinton got impeached because he lied.
Here you have a president, who I can tell you and guarantee you is in collusion with the Russians to undermine our democracy.
Here you have a president who obstructed justice.
And here you have a president who lies every day.Thank God that the special counsel is beginning to connect the dots and understand Facebook s role in it and social media s role in it.
When is the black community going to say, Impeach him ?
It s time to go after him.
I don t hear you!Don t another person come up to me and say, You go, girl.
No, you go!Waters received a standing ovation Oy vey!MAXINE DENIES CALLING FOR TRUMP S IMPEACHMENT:WHICH IS IT?