Donald Trump has singled out many people during his campaign, but none have remained a target in Trump s eyes and Twitter feed quite like Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly.Trump s issue with Kelly exploded after the first Republican debate, when Kelly understandably called Trump out on his long-winded history of sexist, misogynistic comments toward women.
Trump, being the abrasive a**hole that he is, blew the incident way out of proportion and continued to slam Kelly both on and off Twitter for weeks after the debate.
Now Kelly is speaking out against Trump, claiming that the business mogul had actually tried to woo her in some incredibly creepy ways which may have influenced why he was so bitter when she called him out.Vanity FairThis month Kelly graces the cover of Vanity Fair magazine, in which the 45-year-old journalist spoke about her interactions with The Donald at length.
Kelly said that Trump used to send her press clippings that were signed Donald Trump , and called her numerous times to tell her how much he enjoyed certain segments of her show (ironically, after the debate Trump criticized Kelly s show extensively).
Kelly didn t think much of this at first, but when Trump announced he was going to run for president, Kelly said it became more clear.
But, Kelly said that Trump s efforts were completely futile.
She said: I can t be wooed.
I was never going to love him, and I was never going to hate him.
I would have crawled over a pile of hot coals to make it to that debate.
No one was going to be sitting in for me, reading my questions.
And I can say with confidence that neither Bret nor Chris wanted to read my questions for many reasons!
Kelly revealed that her decision to focus on Trump s sexist remarks was because she knew Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton would zero in on them if they faced each other in the general election.
Part of what Kelly said to Trump was: Your Twitter account has several disparaging comments about womens looks.
You once told a contestant on celebrity apprentice that it would be a pretty picture to see her on her knees.Does that sound to you like the temperament of a man we should elect as president?
And how will you answer the charge from Hillary Clinton who is likely to be the Democratic nominee that you are a part of the war on women?
It was one of the most reported moments from the debate, and Kelly received attacks from both Trump AND his loyal followers for holding him accountable.
Trump lovers sent her death threats, called her a c t and a hag on social media even Trump s top deputy retweeted gut her.
Trump was especially immature about the situation, and he took his disdain for being confronted to new heights when he told CNN s Don Lemon that Kelly had blood coming out of her eyes.
Blood coming out of her wherever.
Then, the Republican frontrunner threatened to boycott Fox and continued to diss Kelly for weeks after the debate only further proving her point about Trump s misogyny.Featured image via Vanity Fair