If you ve been privy to any form of a Donald Trump rally, then you re likely aware that they can sometimes get violent if anyone were to dare speak up in dissent of the Republican frontrunner.
In fact, Trump himself will encourage the crowd to get the protesters out, even going so far as to incite violence.
This has been going on for some time now, and many have been waiting for him to be held accountable for his actions and words.
Well, it looks like that time is now.On Thursday, a lawsuit was filed by three people who assert that they were attacked, and/or called racial slurs during a Trump campaign event on March 1 in Louisville, Kentucky.
According to NBC News: The lawsuit filed Thursday was on behalf of Kashiya Nwanguma, a 21-year-old college student; Molly Shah, a 36-year-old activist; and Henry Brousseau, a 17-year-old high school student.
According to WDRB out of Louisville: Three people who claim they were assaulted at the Donald Trump rally on March 1 have filed a lawsuit against Trump, his campaign, a white supremacist and a Korean War Veteran.
Those who claim to have been assaulted say they were there to peacefully protest, but Trump stopped his speech to tell the crowd to get em out of here.
WDRB reports: Nwanguma, a 21-year-old University of Louisville student, claims she was protesting non-violently, carrying a sign depicting Trump s face on the body of a pig.
The lawsuit alleges Nwanguma was called racist and sexist slurs and repeatedly assaulted.
Heimbach and Bamberger both shoved and struck her, according to the lawsuit.
A video of the incident went viral soon after the rally.Shah claims after one of Trump s five comments urging supporters to throw out protestors, Heimbach and others rushed at her small group.
Shah said she witnessed someone punch Brousseau and then she was shoved from behind by Heimbach as she began to leave.Brousseau, a 17-year-old high school student, alleges he was punched in the stomach by a one of the Traditionalist Worker Party comrades.
The suit includes unknown defendant as a party.
You can read the full complaint HERE.Seeing what s been happening at Trump rallies nationwide, hearing about these incidents really isn t too hard to believe.
These three individuals just finally took truth to power and are filing a much-deserved lawsuit.Listening to Donald Trump at any rally isn t like listening to any sort of politician who truly wants to serve the nation.
He s clearly in this election for himself, and this is evident by how much he talks about how great he is throughout any speech.
He doesn t want anyone around him to dare question his motives and he s very manipulative with the press, keeping them in pens and only fielding questions that will best suit his own interests.
If you dare speak up against him, he ll slander you, and he doesn t seem to be capable of apologizing or owning up to his own mistakes.
This is all on top of the fact that he only speaks in applause lines and bumper sticker phrases while encouraging his crowds to be violent.
He s literally taking a crop of blindly misinformed nitwits and using them as his own personal Brownshirts, reminiscent of another harsh dictator from Germany who came into power in the 1930s.Trump must be stopped and he must be held accountable.
This lawsuit is hopefully the first of many in the quest to make sure he never sets foot inside the Oval Office.Featured Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images