It s pretty rare that a presidential candidate would regret getting an endorsement while on the campaign trail, but such might be the case for GOPer Marco Rubio after what former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum did to him!Having recently dropped out of his own race for the White House, Santorum decided to throw his support behind the Flordia senator yesterday, giving the candidate his best wishes and a passionate endorsement.
This endorsement followed Rubio s third-place win in Iowa on Monday, and the candidate is picking up speed for the New Hampshire primary taking place next week.But on Thursday morning, Santorum s endorsement had the complete opposite effect on Rubio s campaign.
Instead of being a great boost, it just made both politicians look incapable and stupid, thanks to Santorum s appearance on Morning Joe.
Host Joe Scarborough simply asked the question What do you list as Marco Rubio s top accomplishment?
and it all went downhill from there!
You can watch the awkward, embarrassing footage below:Santorum not only squirmed and danced around what was an understandable question, but failed to finally give any sort of satisfying answer.
Some of Santorum s meek side-stepping remarks were that Rubio [Won] a tough election in Florida, pull[ing] people together from a variety of spots and that He s someone who brings people together!
Meanwhile, the Morning Joe panel couldn t help but laugh at how absurd the situation was.
In a final attempt, Scarborough firmly pressed the former senator, He s been in the Senate four years.
Can you name his top accomplishment?
And Santorum proved that even with the help of the show s hosts, he just couldn t come up with even one thing Rubio had done.
Defeated and tired of smiling and shaking his head, Santorum eventually said, The bottom line is there isn t a whole lot of accomplishments, Joe, and accused the host of asking him something I just don t think it s a fair question (even though it was completely straightforward and logical).This interview was so awkward that at one point, Scarborough s co-host Mika Brzezinski said, Hold on.
This is disturbing.
Featured image is a screenshot