And he did it right to O Reilly s face.During an appearance on the O Reilly Factor on Wednesday night, Univision anchor Jorge Ramos nailed the Fox News host and fellow Fox colleague Sean Hannity for treating Donald Trump with kid gloves rather than grill him and challenge him over his extreme racist rhetoric.After O Reilly suggested that Univision is not treating Donald Trump fairly, Ramos made him admit that the channel has been tough on both Democrats and Republicans, but particularly tough on Republicans because, We cannot allow racism and discrimination to be normal.
But that s a subjective thing, O Reilly claimed in defense of Trump.
When you say that Mexican immigrants are criminals or rapists, that is for many people a racist remark, Ramos shot back.
But he didn t say all of them were, O Reilly said before reading a Donald Trump quote about Mexico sending the worst of their citizens over the border to the United States.
O Reilly even insisted to a stunned Ramos that all Mexican immigrants bring drugs with them.Ramos fired back with statistics proving that the vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding.
But O Reilly shrugged off the statistics because he doesn t think it s fair to be countered with facts.Not wanting anything to do with facts, O Reilly went back to accusing Ramos and Univision of not being objective toward Trump.
O Reilly accused Ramos specifically of demonizing Trump as a racist.However, considering what Trump has said about Muslims and Hispanics since his campaign began and the fact that white supremacists, the KKK, and neo-Nazis have flocked to his campaign to support him, it s fair to say that Ramos is absolutely right to label Trump a racist and it is amazing that other media outlets have failed to do the same.And that s why Ramos turned the accusations around on O Reilly himself, accusing him of not being tough on Trump.
Of course, O Reilly objected even though he has repeatedly let the Republican front-runner off the hook.
And the fact that O Reilly attempted on multiple occasions during this interview with Ramos to defend Trump s racism pretty much proved Ramos correct.
You ve talked to him so many times, and you and Sean Hannity let him get away with everything, Ramos declared.Then Ramos annoyed O Reilly with those pesky facts again as he reported that 81 percent of Latinos have a negative opinion of Trump because of the things he has said throughout his campaign.
O Reilly tried to claim that they have a negative opinion because of Univision.
You know, because all Latinos get their news from Univision and can t possibly have an independent opinion about Trump based on what he has said.
I don t know what s in his heart, but I know what s coming out of his mouth, Ramos responded about Trump when O Reilly complained that Univision hasn t called Hillary Clinton a racist.
And then the interview ended.Here s the video via Media Matters.Donald Trump is a racist and any person looking at Trump objectively knows it.
His words on multiple occasions cannot possibly make him look like anything else but a racist, especially when white supremacists endorse him and he fails to denounce them.
Univision is actually performing a service for the American people by calling Trump what he is while other media outlets, especially Fox News, coddle him in order to draw ratings.
It s a disgrace to journalism and Fox News and Bill O Reilly ought to be ashamed of themselves.
Featured image via Dangerous Minds