Author Ed Klein told Pete Hegseth on Fox and Friends Weekend that Barack Obama is setting up a shadow government in Washington DC to undermine President Trump after Inauguration Day.
Does Obama have plans to work with the underbelly of the Democrat Party to disrupt Trump s term as President?But could the left really attempt a violent revolution to overthrow the U.S. government and overturn the American way of life?Not only could they, but they will try, according to Douglas V. Gibbs, who has appeared as a commentator on Fox News and is a radio talk-show host in Los Angeles.And it won t be a liberal revolution.
It will be a communist revolution.That s the prediction Gibbs made in an article published Friday in the Canada Free Press titled, Democrats Prepare for Violent Revolution.
Examining the evidence, he concludes a revolution attempt is not necessarily imminent, but that it will happen, once various pieces fall into place.Gibbs declared, They are in full preparation for social and economic collapse, or a violent revolution.
He cites the website DisruptJ20 and its Call for a bold mobilization against the inauguration of Donald Trump on January 20, 2017.
Gibbs quotes Michael Moore explaining, It is their goal to block, obstruct, disrupt, and do whatever they can to prevent the onslaught that is going to happen with Donald Trump.
.It is Gibbs contention that, The liberal leftists want desperately to sabotage the Trump administration, and possibly overthrow the entire government.
For their socialist big government agenda, the ends justifies the means.
Why now?Because, he explained, [U]nder Obama, the veil was raised.
Why worry about exposure now?
They ve been poking the right-of-center groups in the chest for years, trying to instigate a violent response, and they never got it.
Now, he continued, they may be realizing, it is up to them to initiate the violence.
It is up to the leftists to finally launch the true coup.
Or, at least that is what a lot of people think.
Evidence that could support his theory is not hard to come by, as the left is becoming increasingly violent.During the 2016 presidential campaign, leftist riots broke out in cities across the country, the worst perhaps in San Jose, California, and in Chicago.WND reported assassination threats against Trump accompanied the nationwide rioting.Often-violent anti-Trump protests broke out in cities including Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, Denver, Minneapolis, Baltimore, Seattle, Tampa, Dallas and Oakland, California.In Chicago, a video showed a mob of young black men beating and dragging through the streets a white man who voted for Trump.Portland, Oregon police termed a protest a riot after anarchists threw objects at officers, vandalized local businesses and damaged cars.Some 1,000 protesters in Oakland broke store windows, left graffiti on buildings and threw M-80 firecrackers, Molotov cocktails and bottles at police officers, authorities told CNN.And that s only the beginning, if Gibbs is right.He suggests the left will inevitably move on to more violence following the election of Trump, because the realization that the Democrats are losing grip on their transformational agenda in the rest of the country has slammed the leftists square in the face.
Gibbs asserts the leftists hate any opposition, and are willing to do whatever it takes to either win over their opposition, or silence and eliminate their opposition.
The next step by the left, according to Gibbs, is the stockpiling of arms.
Now, it s the liberals who are suddenly worried, and stockpiling food, guns, and emergency supplies, he observed.
Trump s 2016 win was a wake-up call.
Their cheating, lying and violence was not enough to stop the man, and his very unorthodox approach to politics.
Gibbs sees the left s hysteria as now having gone beyond insanity, marking a transition to violent anger.He believes the hysteria arose because the left they thought they had finally defeated the right permanently with the election of Obama, and that the election of Hillary Clinton would seal the deal.
They only needed, now, to disarm the crazy right-wing bastards, wrote Gibbs.
Then, with a faint whimper, the last of the opposition to the liberal left agenda would be gone.
It seemed to them a near-certainty, but when it all came crashing down on Nov. 8, it was a disorienting shock to the system.
Nobody on the left side of the aisle expected that Trump had a snowball s chance in Hell to win the 2016 Election.
All of their skewed poll numbers said Hillary was going to win.
Gibbs portrayed the left as in a state similar to post-traumatic stress disorder.For entire story: WND