We all remember how on the eve of Montana s special election, then-Republican candidate Greg Gianforte made headlines when The Guardian s Ben Jacobs asked him a simple question about the Congressional Budget Office s score on the disastrous GOP healthcare bill.
Instead of answering like any normal person, or even just saying he didn t have a comment at that time, Gianforte suddenly became enraged without cause, and body slammed Jacobs, breaking his glasses and injuring his arm.
Gianforte was later charged with misdemeanor assault.
Despite this disturbing set of events, he still won his race.Now, Gianforte has just been sworn into Congress.
The Montana Democrats had a surprise waiting for him on his first day a bit of trolling if you will.
They sent Gianforte an orange jumpsuit clearly suggesting that he should be in jail for what he did to Ben Jacobs, and not heading to Washington to fill a seat in Congress.
This was the official Montana Democratic Party, too not just some liberal activists with a sense of humor.
They posted to their official website: Everyone knows you need plenty of suits to work on Capitol Hill.
While millionaire Gianforte can certainly afford his own, we know he has a lot of legal fees to pay.
So, we thought we d help him out and get him started by mailing a new suit to his office in the Longworth House Office Building in Washington.
An orange jumpsuit, that is.
Roy Loewenstein, the spokesman for the Montana Democrats, went on to say of Gianforte: Greg Gianforte was previously most well-known for losing the governor s race in a wave year.
Now he s most well-known for pleading guilty to the Big Sky body slam.
As a convicted criminal, he will be hidden by his Leadership and not given any position of influence in Washington.
So, we got Mr. Gianforte a welcome gift to help his new colleagues identify him.
Of course, the GOP was not happy with the bit of fun the Montana Democrats had at Gianforte s expense.
the National Republican Congressional Committee was livid at the way the Democrats humiliated Gianforte, saying through their mouthpiece Jack Pandol: The swearing-in ceremony held today is about all Montanans regaining their voice in the House of Representatives, not partisan politics.
Instead, Montana Democrats are crying over spilled milk simply because they lost an election.
This isn t about losing an election.
This is about the fact that we have a clearly violent man who is convicted of assault sitting in the United States House of Representatives, and the Republican Party has absolutely no problem with that.
Then again, they ve always opened their arms to violent criminals, so nobody who has watched their non-responses to right-wing violence and the horrific scenes at Trump rallies is at all surprised.
Gianforte will be right at home in Paul Ryan s GOP House Conference.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images