Donald Trump lost his temper on CNN when Jake Tapper asked him to be a leader and tone down the violent rhetoric of his campaign.On Sunday, Trump appeared on CNN and was immediately confronted by Tapper about how the Republican front-runner has incited violence during his rallies that have led to his supporters carrying out vicious attacks against non-white protesters.Last week, an old white Trump supporter sucker-punched a young black man during a rally in North Carolina and suggested he and friends would kill him if he shows up to another rally.During the same rally, yet another white Trump supporter yelled obscenities at a black man and slapped him.Both incidents were caught on video and neither of the white men were arrested or kicked out of the rally at the time.And since then, Trump rallies have only gotten worse as rallies in St. Louis and Chicago nearly turned into race wars.But Trump refused to tone his rhetoric down on Sunday, insisting that he was the victim and that his supporters are peaceful people who love America.
He also accused Bernie Sanders of sending his supporters to disrupt the rallies and claimed that he hasn t incited violence at all even though he has been caught on tape doing exactly that.When Tapper tried to convince Trump to be a real leader and stop inciting violence, Trump became snippy.TAPPER: People are getting hurt and people are actually concerned that somebody might get seriously, seriously injured.
You are not taking down the temperature.
You are, in the views of many of your fellow Republicans, making things worse, inciting, encouraging violence.
And you re a leader, sir.
You re the front-runner in the Republican Party.
TRUMP: Excuse me, excuse me!
My fellow Republicans are running against me, they are losing bigly.
The Donald then proceeded to lose his temper by nastily attacking his opponents and accusing Tapper of not covering his campaign rallies truthfully, yelling over Tapper and interrupting him while bashing CNN and claiming that zero people have been injured at his rallies.When Tapper could actually get a word in, he once again asked Trump to dial back his rhetoric for the sake of the country.
Trump responded that Tapper should be more accurate in his reporting.TAPPER: I would just ask as a fellow American if you could consider whether or not dialing down the temperature, might be a healthier thing, both for your campaign and for the nation the nation at large.
TRUMP: Well, you should report it right because we ve had no injuries at my events.
So, you know, do what you have to do.
Here s the video via YouTube.Clearly, Trump is lying when he says nobody has been injured at his rallies.
There are countless videos of protesters being roughed up or flat-out assaulted by his supporters as Trump eggs them on.
As we get closer and closer to the nomination, Trump has become more and more dangerous as his rallies have basically become full-blown Klan and neo-Nazi rallies where white racists feel right at home.
What once sounded like a joke campaign has now become America s worst nightmare and it isn t over yet.Featured image via screen capture