These leftist actors are so darn funny.
You know what isn t funny?
They never mention the 4 Americans Hillary left to die in Benghazi.
They never mention that she has put our nation and the national security of our nation at risk with her personal unsecured email server.
You know what else isn t funny?
That they never mention the person they re supporting, because she has a vagina and a D after her name, has been under criminal investigation for most of her adult life.
But let s hear how funny it is that some nit-wit actress who is supported by the general public (not just Democrats) wanted to track down Trump to make a video attempting to humiliate him.
I m actually sorry she never found him, it would ve been an amazing career ending move.
The 25-year-old Oscar-winning actress joined fellow actors Johnny Depp and James McAvoy on the Graham Norton Show Friday night, where she revealed that she once attended a concert at which the Republican presidential frontrunner was also present.
I was at a concert that I heard he was attending, so I had my full security, I was like, Find Donald Trump, Lawrence told Norton.
Because I was adamant on finding him and then making a video of me going, Hey Trump, f*ck you!
I wouldn t rest until he was found, the actress continued over the audience s enthusiastic applause.
He knew I was looking for him.
WATCH:Meanwhile, Depp told Norton about his experience playing Trump in left-wing comedy website Funny or Die s Art of the Deal movie in February, and even offered up some on-the-spot impressions of the GOP candidate.
Both Lawrence and Depp have predicted apocalyptic disaster if the Republican presidential hopeful were to win in November.During a red carpet appearance at the premiere of his latest film Alice Through the Looking Glass earlier this week, Depp said that a President Trump would be America s last president.
If Donald Trump is elected president of the United States of America, in a kind of historical way it s exciting, Depp said, because we will see the actual last president of the United States.
Via: Breitbart News