Rosie O Donnell and Donald Trump have been engaged in a years-long feud, mostly because he leveled pathetic jabs at her over minor issues.
But since Trump began his run for President, watching her smack him around has gone from entertaining to downright epic.
On Wednesday, O Donnell made an appearance at a Boy George and Cyndi Lauper gig in New York.
Speaking to the crowd, she launched into another attack on Trump that is likely eating away at him this very moment.In a video posted by the Daily Mail, O Donnell joked that she is depressed because I f*cking hate that orange piece of sh*t. She says he talked to her therapist about The Donald, and was told not to focus on the 2016 Republican frontrunner.
Well I would rather give birth to a flaming iguana while taking a sh*t, she recalls saying, apparently about his presidential prospects.
I hate him.
I hate him.
O Donnell noted that someone who was her enemy for years is friends with the sh*tstain with a tinge of orange a fact that worries her.All through her brief set, the audience cheered and laughed, but the man who recorded the video says that a few people were upset with O Donnell.
Rosie s routine was just jaw-dropping, he told the Daily Mail, noting that he began recording after the comedienne called Trump a sh*tstain.
She sounds like she is obsessed with Donald Trump and it was what she spent most of her very short act talking about.
He says that not everyone was impressed, tossing out an unverifiable claim that people around him were shaking their heads in disagreement.
One man near me turned to his wife turned and said, I really hope Donald gets elected so she keeps her promise and moves to Canada , the man claims, apparently able to overhear someone s conversation with his wife over both O Donnell and the very enthusiastic crowd.
He says that Another lady was shouting, Get off and let Cyndi sing' something that is oddly missing from his video.Recently, O Donnell made headlines with a rather hilarious observation about Trump s mouth specifically that it looks almost exactly like a puckered anus.Watch O Donnell s latest Trump smackdown below:Featured image via Getty Images (Dimitrios Kambouris)/Getty Images (Spencer Platt)