There s been an ongoing battle between presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren.
The two have been verbally sparring back and forth for over a month now.
Trump hurling insults, and Warren absolutely pummeling him with actual intellect.Warren s most recent remarks came Tuesday as she brought up the fact that Trump was rooting for the mortgage market to fail back before the housing crisis eight years ago.
He was hoping to literally bank off people losing their homes.Warren said: Donald Trump was drooling over the idea of a housing meltdown because it meant he could buy up a bunch more property on the cheap.
What kind of a man does that?
Root for people to get thrown out on the street?
Root for people to lose their jobs?
Root for people to lose their pensions?
Root for two little girls in Clark County, Nevada, to end up living in a van?
What kind of a man does that?
I ll tell you exactly what kind.
A man who cares about no one but himself.
A small, insecure money-grubber who doesn t care who gets hurt, so long as he makes some money off it.
What kind of man does that?
A man who will never be president of the United States.
And she s absolutely correct.Warren also went into how Trump keeps complaining about Dodd-Frank, the Wall Street reform bill, and how it s apparently limiting banks from doing business.
She said: Donald Trump is worried about helping poor little Wall Street?
Let me find the world s smallest violin to play a sad, sad song.
Adding: Can Donald Trump even name three things about Dodd-Frank?
Likely not, but neither can his supporters, and he s relying on their ineptitude to get ahead.Oh, and Warren is clearly getting under Trump s thin skin, because this is what he had to say after the Massachusetts senator s speech:Goofy Senator Elizabeth Warren @elizabethforma has done less in the U.S. Senate than practically any other senator.
All talk, no action!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 25, 2016That, from a man who, quite literally, has absolutely no policy or diplomacy experience whatsoever.
Trump is clearly terrified of strong women and he needs to realize that hurling insults at women who have had to battle every step of the way to get to where they are isn t going to work.
He s not the first bully they ve come across, and he most certainly won t be the last.Watch Warren s amazing speech here:Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images