A Carrier union leader called Donald Trump out for his lies about the deal that supposedly saved American jobs from moving to Mexico.
So what did Trump do?
Tell the truth?
Take responsibility for his actions?
Recant his bogus claims?
Oh, heck no!
He attacked him on Twitter.
Because of course he did.On Wednesday, United Steelworkers 1999 President Chuck Jones said Trump and his second in command, Mike Pence, used misleading numbers and pointed out that some of the jobs they took credit for saving weren t ever even leaving to begin with.
What they re doing, they re counting in 350 odd more that were never leaving this country at all, Jones told Burnett.
If you re dealing with people s livelihoods, you sure as hell ought to know what the numbers are.
Jones said that, for some unknown reason, he believed Trump would do the right thing at his Dec. 1 press conference and tell the truth that 550 jobs weren t saved.
But he got up there, Jones said, and, for whatever reason, lied his ass off, Jones said.Not being one to handle criticism well, Trump blew his top when Jones called out his B.S.
and took to Twitter to voice his anger.Chuck Jones, who is President of United Steelworkers 1999, has done a terrible job representing workers.
No wonder companies flee country!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 8, 2016If United Steelworkers 1999 was any good, they would have kept those jobs in Indiana.
Spend more time working-less time talking.
Reduce dues Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 8, 2016So now, among all the other groups Trump has taken aim at, he is going after union leaders.
The heroes of the very white working class, blue collar folks who voted him into office have now become the latest victims to feel the brunt of Trump s billionaire boots.
That sure didn t take long.
All they had to do was quit kissing his ass and call him out for being the pathological liar that he is and he turned on them in a heartbeat.
Is anybody here surprised?
No?
Didn t think so.Featured image via Tasos Katopodis/Getty Images