President Obama got real and raw with CNN s Anderson Cooper during a televised town hall meeting on gun violence..@POTUS addresses the "conspiracy" that "we are creating a plot to take everybody's guns" https://t.co/AFzFmmsvGC https://t.co/p611SWIrgk CNN (@CNN) January 8, 2016Obama was speaking about the right-wing conspiracy that he is in favor of mass confiscation of guns when Cooper interrupted him and asked, Is it fair to call it a conspiracy?
A lot of people believe this deeply.
That stopped the President in his tracks, and he angrily turned to the anchor.
I m sorry Cooper, yes, it is fair to call it a conspiracy.
What are you saying?
Are you suggesting that the notion that we are creating a plot to take everybody s guns away so that we can impose martial law is not a conspiracy?
Yes, that is a conspiracy.
I would hope that you would agree with that.
For years President Obama has had to keep his emotion in check, knowing that flashes of anger and outbursts would instantly give his political opponents fodder for tired, old lines of attack about the angry black man.
But Cooper s indulgence of the right wing myth of gun confiscation came at the wrong time in Obama s presidency.
He has a year left in office, with no more elections left to fight without the need to soothe the egos of those spinning wild yarns without any connection to reality.While Anderson Cooper isn t a right-winger like the figures littering the airwaves on Fox News, his invocation of a both sides talking point was almost as bad.
Obama s actual actions and proposals on guns bear no resemblance to the right s ongoing characterization of them as a gun grab, and even less so the idea that Obama supports gun confiscation.
The people promoting that idea the NRA, Rush Limbaugh, Fox News, and other figures on the right are simply pushing a conspiracy theory on par with the idea that the 9/11 terrorist attacks were an inside job or that the government is covering up alien abductions.
It is patently absurd for Cooper to give credence to this wild-eyed assertions, and Obama understandably was put off by Cooper giving it credibility on-air.Featured image via Twitter