It s no secret that Team Trump has a problem with minorities and that is putting it kindly.
Despite Trump s recent attempts to fake caring about black people by speaking to black voters in a mostly white Wisconsin suburb, it couldn t be more clear that it s all just an attempt to save face.
Well, now, one black Trump adviser has actually admitted what we already knew: the Trump camp couldn t give two shits about minority outreach.Sean Jackson leads the Black Republican Caucus of Florida, and somehow he thinks that Trump actually likes black people.
Jackson actually blames Trump s campaign staff rather than the Great Orange Racist himself for the abysmal polling results when it comes to African American voters.
Jackson says: Mr. Trump really does have a sincere, passionate interest in black outreach, but his campaign staff has dropped the ball.
I have been saying repeatedly that you cannot go into a black community in the ninth hour of a campaign and ask them to vote for a GOP candidate.
The party has done a piss-poor job of courting the black vote over 50 years.
So you have to have more vested interest in time and in your financial effort for the whole campaign, not just in the last 100 days.
Well, Mr. Jackson, you got one thing right here: The GOP HAS done a piss poor job of reaching out to black voters for decades.
There s a reason for that, though: the party is full of racists.
That s just the truth, but being a black Republican yourself, I suppose that you either refuse to see or choose to overlook that fact.
Just a couple of examples, to remind you.
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise is the number three ranking Republican in the House of Representatives.
He also once bragged to a reporter that he is, quote, David Duke without the baggage.
Then you have Rep. Steve King, who literally floated white supremacist theories on live television during convention coverage.
And that s just TWO examples.
We won t even get started on just how racist The Donald himself is.Wake up, man Donald Trump and the GOP don t give a damn about black people.
They just want our votes, and you ve fallen for their line of bullshit hook, line, and sinker.Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images