House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz has been fantasizing about investigating a potential President Hillary Clinton into oblivion based on her use of a private email server.
After all, Chaffetz has promised, quote, years of Clinton investigations should she be elected.
This all comes after an unprecedented not to mention completely inappropriate letter that FBI Director James Comey sent to House Republicans saying that he was re-investigating new emails.
Well, now, Comey has, once again, cleared Hillary of what was to become yet another anti-Clinton GOP witch hunt, and House Republicans are sure to be furious.
Here is the tweet of the letter:New Comey letter: FBI has not changed its conclusion regarding Clinton use of personal email server pic.twitter.com/IdKT1gweMf Jim Acosta (@Acosta) November 6, 2016Nonetheless, Chaffetz himself had to admit that Hillary is in the clear with this one.
He tweeted:FBI Dir just informed us "Based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Sec Clinton" Jason Chaffetz (@jasoninthehouse) November 6, 2016Of course, most sane people know that the idea that Hillary is some kind of criminal is nothing more than decades of right-wing witch hunting, and her campaign is right to say that they have always been confident that she did nothing wrong.
Therefore, top adviser Brian Fallon tweeted the following regarding this news:We were always confident nothing would cause the July decision to be revisited.
Now Director Comey has confirmed ithttps://t.co/BMQQx9eRzw Brian Fallon (@brianefallon) November 6, 2016The thing is this, though: Comey and his rogue FBI agents directly impacted the election with baseless and wild accusations.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is supposed to be non-partisan, and has been anything but.
Hell, there were inside agents who even called the New York FBI, quote, Trumpland.
The bottom line is this: The whole situation never should have happened.
Rogue agents never should have been leaking information regarding an ongoing investigation, and Comey himself should have never gone to Congress with that letter eleven days shy of this all-important and highly contentious election.When Hillary gets elected, she should clean house, and restore confidence in one of America s most important institutions.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images