Donald Trump is an idiot.
Ben Carson, a literal brain surgeon, is so stupid that the phrase what are you, a brain surgeon or something?
loses all meaning.
Carson, who was fired from Trump s campaign after leaking Sarah Palin as one of the clowns on Trump s VP shortlist and who was illegally promised a position on Trump s campaign in exchange for his support, said something on Wednesday that almost, almost makes Donald Trump s recent string of dumber-than-normal statements and stunts not seem all that bad at all by comparison you know, if Carson s dumbass remarks weren t an attempt to defend Trump s dumbass remarks.With pretty much the entire universe condemning Trump s disgusting attacks on the family of a Muslim veteran, the Trump camp is working triple-overtime to defend his actions rather than acknowledge that he s a horrible human being.
Trump s supporters have suggested that the father of the deceased hero thinks Sharia Law is above the Constitution (he doesn t), that he is a Muslim Brotherhood agent (once again, this is an unfounded claim), and any other number of ridiculous things they can come up with.
The Right is even blaming Cpt.
Humayun Khan s death on President Obama even though he died years before Obama took office.
Trump himself has attacked the grief-stricken mother, because he s an asshole.But what can be worse than someone who dedicates his life to attacking the parents of a fallen soldier?
How about demanding that they apologize to Trump?
That s exactly what Ben Carson did when Wolf Blitzer asked him about the Trump-Khan situation.
We have important issues to deal with.
Let s just call a truce, Carson told Blitzer, adding that Trump and the Khans should just move on.
Asked if Trump should apologize to the Khans, Mr.
Brain Guy explained that they should be apologizing to Trump for who knows why?
: I don t think it would be harmful if they apologized to him and he apologized to them, but I don t see that happening.
Well, of course it s not going to happen.
They did nothing wrong besides stand inside The Donald s cross-hairs.
Asked why they the family of a dead soldier whom Trump attacked should apologize to them, Carson upped the derp a bit: Well, for one thing, if you accuse someone of something that s not true, it usually is a reasonable thing to acknowledge that.
He s right.
If someone lies about someone else, they should apologize.
But that s not what happened here.
They have not lied about him at all.
In fact, they even offered to loan him a copy of their pocket Constitution since Trump is running for President and apparently has never read it.
It s unclear what Carson means by not true, but it s sort of hilarious that he doesn t think that statement applies to Trump.Watch Carson insert his foot in his mouth below:https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=91&v=bJZyBny5my4Featured image via screengrab