It s bad enough to have crazed costumed characters in Times Square begging and harassing tourists but the NYPD can t even arrest the mostly illegal aliens because of the policy of the de Blasio administration.
Costumed and nude panhandlers are giving the finger to attempts to rein them in, refusing to stay in designated areas and continuing to curse in front of kiddies and threaten passers-by for dough.Breitbart News Reported: Mayor Bill de Blasio has stated that the NYPD won t cooperate with federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents seeking to repatriate illegal immigrants: The NYPD will not participate as immigration enforcement agents because we have, for decades, built a close working relationship with immigrant communities, de Blasio said.
Our police force is not going to be out there knocking on people s door and it is not going to share information about people s documentation status with the federal authorities.
City officials city and the NYPD officers will cooperate with the feds only in immigration cases which involve serious and violent crimes, Foul-mouthed desnudas, grabby Hulks and tourist-terrorizing gangs of Minnie Mice are still brazenly holding the Crossroads of the World hostage even amid a heavy presence of NYPD cops, who act oblivious to their disturbing antics.At any given moment on two recent afternoons, only half of the two-dozen tip-mooching characters stayed behind the blue lines of Times Square s Designated Activity Zones, or DAZs, the city-mandated areas created last year as their boundary for posing for photos and asking for tips.Yet none of those who illegally strayed outside the zones were issued summonses by the half-dozen police patrolling the pedestrian plaza.A law-enforcement source shrugged that the officers hands were tied since most of the costumed panhandlers are illegal and under the de Blasio administration, it s a no-no to go after them.The law-enforcement source added that past proposals to license the creatures went nowhere because most of the panhandlers are illegal immigrants and they wouldn t register anyway.
Besides, the administration at City Hall isn t interested in going after illegals in this capacity, the source said.The most shameless of the costumed pack repeatedly left the DAZs to grab, mob and berate tourists Take a photo lady!
Mami!
shouted a trio of overly-aggressive Minnie Mice in their frantic pursuit of cash.
I told you, if you don t have a tip, then f off!
one star-spangled desnuda, a painted nude hustler, snarled to a Post reporter, displaying just the sort of greed that detractors say is ruining Times Square s happy, family vibe.This insanity was reported by a New York Post reporter who walked Times Square and spoke with different people.
If you ve ever experienced the harassment that goes on in Times Square from these beggars then you d be even more furious that these people are even walking our streets!
Thanks to the ridiculous policy from the commie mayor of NYC, the tourists and legal citizens living there have to endure this pond scum of humanity.
Pitiful!Read more: NYP, Read more: DM