Anyone who knows anything about the Civil Rights Movement and its highlights knows about Bloody Sunday.
It was the Sunday in the late winter/early spring of 1965 where many civil rights leaders and protesters lost their lives at the hands of law enforcement and others who wanted to keep racism alive on a legal level.
Roughly 600 people assembled in Selma, Alabama after a march from Montgomery that Sunday March 7, 1965 and today is the 51st anniversary of that March.Another widely known fact is that esteemed and celebrated U.S.
Congressman John Lewis was there.
Not only was he there, but he was beaten within an inch of his life for protesting for the civil rights of black people.
Luckily, he survived to tell the tale, and has decided to tweet the timeline of what happened to him and others in the time leading up to that fateful day.
Here are the highlights:I was arrested for the first time 56 years ago today during a nonviolent sit-in to protest segregated lunch counters pic.twitter.com/Xp2C9K8oLa John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) February 28, 2016He reminded us what he and others went through so that EVERYONE has the right to vote:The Vote is precious, it is almost sacred.
I gave a little blood to guarantee that every American has the right to vote.
Do your part.
John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 1, 2016Jim Lawson friend, mentor was expelled from Vanderbilt 56 years ago today for his role in organizing the Nashville sit-ins #goodtrouble John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 3, 2016Jim Lawson is one of the great unsung heroes of the Movement.
He freed me.
He liberated me.
We all owe him a debt.
pic.twitter.com/z2tXkjwiOm John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 3, 2016It's good to be back in Selma one more time.
https://t.co/eGB4W8jtW3 John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 6, 201651 years ago today, we said a prayer before setting out from Brown Chapel to march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge.
pic.twitter.com/bt2gJFDuPb John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016At the apex of the bridge, high above the Alabama River, Hosea Williams asked if I could swim.
I said no.
#Selma51 pic.twitter.com/dlEXA8dJ6X John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016Major John Cloud said, "This is an unlawful march.
It will not be allowed to continue."
#Selma51 pic.twitter.com/Gw5pHCHJDM John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016The Major paused for a minute and then he said, "Troopers advance!"
pic.twitter.com/rN8Br6bqse John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016I was hit in the head by a State Trooper.
I thought I saw death.
I thought I was going to die.
#Selma51 pic.twitter.com/N4CDxv2vJG John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016I had a concussion there at the bridge, and I've never been able to recall how any of us made it back alive #Selma51 pic.twitter.com/TlJRfyrikO John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016Finally, at the end of his harrowing tweeted story, Rep. Lewis reminded us just how much things HAVE changed, with a powerful photo of himself embracing President Obama, the first Black president:When people tell me nothing has changed, I say come and walk in my shoes and I will show you change.
#Selma51 pic.twitter.com/y4WWtowIeZ John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 7, 2016And then, he made sure we realize just how very far we still have to go:We've come a great distance since Selma, but we still have miles to March if we are to build the beloved community.
pic.twitter.com/Hb9c5M0pRV John Lewis (@repjohnlewis) March 6, 2016Thank you, Rep. Lewis, for sharing your story, and for all you sacrificed and did for all of us.
Also, thank you for reminding us that it s nowhere near over just yet.Featured image via Rep. John Lewis Twitter