If Donald Trump had his way, 14 percent of American teachers would lose their jobs.
While the United States already faces a critical shortage of teachers not seen since the 1990s, Trump s plan would eliminate these crucial teaching positions as well as decimating Pell grants used by millions of students every year to achieve higher education.How would he do this?
Trump, appeasing to the far-right fringe of the Republican Party, has pledged to eliminate the Department of Education.
For years Republicans from Ron Paul to Rick Perry have been pushing for the elimination of not just the DOE, but other Departments as well.A recent study from the Center of American Progress Action Fund used statistical analysis to show what would happen if the Department of Education really was done away with as Trump so wants to do.
Well, the results are horrifying:The list goes on and on.
The idea to eliminate the Department of Education may look good to someone who wants less government, but in reality it s a cold and heartless move that s being pushed by billionaire proponents of school choice, like the Koch Brothers.The Learning Policy Institute attributes the shortage of teachers due to monies and entities being slashed from districts and states (and the federal level) during the Great Recession.
After slashing, schools and teachers suffered.
Now Trump wants to slash the buffer zone between complete privatization of our schools and a robust public option that has greatly enriched our nation.The Congressional Budget Office, a non-partisan fiscal entity, said of closing the Department of Education:U.S. high school graduation rates are hitting all-time highs; dropout rates are at historical lows; college going rates are close to the highest they have ever been; and test scores across the country are improving.
But the elimination of the protections and resources from the Department of Education could significantly hinder or even reverse these gains.Trump won t listen.
Instead he ll pander to his rich ultra-conservative buddies who have now propped him up in this election.
If Trump has his way, say goodbye to our education system.Featured image via Theo Stroomer/Getty Images