Everyone is rightfully outraged at the Executive Order signed by Donald Trump that has left refugees and other immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries in limbo and even in dangers.
It has ripped families apart and sent a signal around the world that America is hostile to Muslims.
Trump s ban is unconstitutional, and, more importantly, un-American.
It goes against everything this nation stands for.Well, aside from the massive protests at airports around the world resisting Trump s fascist and bigoted ban, he has a new set of opponents the actors at the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards.
At Sunday night s ceremony, actor after actor used their stage time to tell immigrants and refugees that they are welcome in our America.
It started with Ashton Kutcher, who welcomed everyone viewing the show, and then extended that welcome to include everyone at airports that belong in my America.
Kutcher then continued: You are apart of the fabric of who we are and we love you and we welcome you.
Lily Tomlin reminded everyone that the Doomsday Clock is now closer than ever to midnight thanks to Trump, and said: The Doomsday Clock has been moved to two and a half minutes before midnight.
And this award came just in the nick of time.
Mahershala Ali of Moonlight fame told a moving tale of how his mother resisted his conversion to Islam, but how it has now deepened and strengthened their loving bond: But I tell you now, we put things to the side and I m able to see her.
She s able to see me.
We love each other.
The love has grown.
Julia Louis-Dreyfus s story was the most chilling of all, considering where we are, as her father came to America to escape certain death at the hands of the Nazis when they took over France.
She says of her American experience: I m an American patriot, and I love this country.
Because I love this country, I am horrified by its blemishes, and this immigrant ban is a blemish and it s un-American.
This is just the beginning, to be sure.
Everyone knows that this Muslim ban is just like what happened during Hitler s reign and so many other horrors in our world s history.
History is repeating itself.
If the United States had not sent Ann Frank back, she d be 77 years old today, and would be a proud American.
What Trump is doing is exactly what happened during World War II.
America surely has blood on its hands as a result of Trump s bigotry.These actors are doing the right thing and standing up for what is right, for what upholds our beautiful American values.
Donald Trump will never destroy that, no matter how many of these people become the subject of his Twitter ire.#RESIST.Watch Ashton Kutcher s opening remarks below:[ad3media campaign= 1429 ]Featured image via Kevork Djansezian/WireImage