Things just keep getting stranger for Republicans in Washington.
More and more Republicans are coming out and calling the recent firing of former FBI Director James Comey a massive abuse of power.
With Senator Majority Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) both clearly unwilling to challenge President Donald J. Trump, one high level GOP staff member is calling for the return of Congressional control to the Democrats.
Mark Salter was the chief of staff to Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and served as a high level advisor to McCain s 2008 presidential campaign tweeted that he thinks U.S. national security may depend on giving Congress back to the Democrats.Words I thought I'd never say: the security of the United States might now depend on electing a Democratic Congress in 2018.
Mark Salter (@MarkSalter55) May 10, 2017This is nothing short of extraordinary.
Nothing this week has been anywhere near normal.
Only one other time in American history has the president fired the director of the FBI.
Bill Clinton only fired William Sessions because Sessions had misused government funds for personal use.The White House explanation for the firing was that Comey had mishandled the investigation into Hillary Clinton s emails.
What?
The official story is that Comey lost his job because he was mean to Hillary?
Does any one really think this explanation lives in the same zip code as plausibility?In a week this strange, it is hard to decide what the strangest part has been.Last night, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer was caught in the bushes and would only do a briefing if the press kept their cameras off.Some Republicans have come out with questions about the reasons Comey was fired.
The usual skeptical suspects, Senators McCain and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) have been joined by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Ben Sasse (R-NE).You have to wonder if any of the Republicans in Congress who are blindly following Trump even read the oath of office they all took not all that long ago.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.