You ve honestly got to be a special kind of stupid to go into the Bronx in your effort to try to win New York, and then double-down on putting New Yorkers down for their supposed values.
However, there Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz was, in all his creepy glory, again going after New York values.
When asked to elaborate on what he meant, he said: Those are the values, the values of the New York liberal politicians that have been hammering the people of this great state.
And he especially went after New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, saying: Every time there is a confrontation between criminals and cops he sides with the criminals, looters and rioters instead of the police officers.
Which is just a flat-out lie, but he s clearly trying to cater to a crowd outside of New York, and completely giving up on any chance as winning the state over Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump.
However, Cruz did take the opportunity to try to bash Trump when he said, If you want to know what liberal democratic values are, follow Donald Trump s checkbook.
Donald Trump has been funding those liberal democratic politicians.
Which may very well be true, but those liberal politicians keep winning, because they are clearly favored over smarmy, pretentious, wannabe Christian conservatives who think they ve been appointed by God to run the nation.
Conservatives like Cruz.One protester, clearly fed up with the arrogance and idiocy of Cruz even being there said, You re running on an anti-immigrant platform, and you re speaking in the Bronx.
You should not be here.
The Bronx, of course, being home to thousands of immigrants, and has been for over a century.Not liking to be interrupted, Republican staffers had this protester removed, but according to the NY Daily News, it seems the protester got his fair share of applause for speaking up.Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. said: Ted Cruz is a hypocrite.
He not only offended New Yorkers, he offended Bronxites, and now he s here today in New York and in the Bronx looking for money and votes.
We in the Bronx know how offensive he s been.
We know the truth about our borough.
Cruz just being there is an insult in and of itself.
Who the hell does he think he is to come into the Bronx seeking support, but then continue to put New Yorkers down?
That protester was absolutely right, he shouldn t have even been there.Featured Photo by Kyle Rivas/Getty Images