San Juan s mayor railed against President Trump s acting DHS Secretary for expressing optimism about the progress the US has made in their relief efforts for residents of Puerto Rico.
San Juan s mayor, Carmin Yulin Cruz, used CNN as a vehicle to criticize the efforts of the US in getting much-needed supplies to the residents of San Juan.
Only hours after the mayor of San Juan criticized the efforts of the Trump administration, tweets from the Mayor of San Juan, (that were sent out before Hurricane Maria) surfaced on Twitter responding to Hillary s tweet, as she trashed President Trump, saying he doesn t deserve to be President.
.
@realDonaldTrump hater, the Mayor of San Juan is the perfect example of an opportunistic politician.
Go ask PR Gov about responsiveness.
pic.twitter.com/us3p78P9zK Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) September 30, 2017Now, the truth about why those thousands of containers filled with supplies are allegedly not getting to the citizens is revealed, and the truth is, it has nothing to do with President Trump or our DHS Conservative Treehouse Puerto Rican born and raised, Colonel Michael A. Valle ( Torch ), Commander, 101st Air and Space Operations Group, and Director of the Joint Air Component Coordination Element, 1st Air Force, responsible for Hurricane Maria relief efforts, has the following comment: They have the generators, water, food, medicine, and fuel on the ground, yet the supplies are not moving across the island as quickly as they re needed.Col.
Valle is a firsthand witness of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) response supporting FEMA in Puerto Rico, and as a Puerto Rican himself with family members living in the devastation, his passion for the people is second to none.
It s just not true, Col. Valle says of the major disconnect today between the perception of a lack of response from Washington verses what is really going on on the ground.
I have family here.
My parents home is here.
My uncles, aunts, cousins, are all here.
As a Puerto Rican, I can tell you that the problem has nothing to do with the U.S. military, FEMA, or the DoD.
It s a lack of drivers for the transport trucks, the 18 wheelers.
Supplies we have.
Trucks we have.
There are ships full of supplies, backed up in the ports, waiting to have a vehicle to unload into.
However, only 20% of the truck drivers show up to work.
These are private citizens in Puerto Rico, paid by companies that are contracted by the government .. (link)Colonel Valle blames the conditions of the roads for the lack of truck drivers to move supplies around Puerto Rico, but the video below tells another story.The ports are so full of relief supplies they can t fit any more in the available space.
CNBC ground report confirms Colonel Valle s ground report.
WATCH:The reason for truck drivers not showing up?
The Puerto Rican Teamsters Union, Frente Amplio, is refusing to move the product.Thomas Wictor shared a video of an interview between a man (he calls the toothless guy ) and a reporter.
Wictor translates their conversation in several tweets that are found below the video: (1) Well, I didn't think it was true, but it is: Puerto Rican truck drivers are refusing to work.https://t.co/obMCPH2NtA Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(13) I didn't think it would be possible for a union to go on strike during a national emergency, but it happened.Stunning, really.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(12) There you have it.As I said before: This is ALL THE FAULT OF PUERTO RICO.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(11) Since the country doesn't care about truckers, the truckers won't help.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(10) The governor didn't understand the suffering of the working man, so now the truckers will show the country what suffering is.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(9) This is all the governor's fault, the toothless guy says.
He passed a law, and now he has to live with it.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(8) Three weeks earlier, nobody cared about the plight of the truckers, so now the truckers don't care about the country.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(7) The toothless guy says the truckers are not responsible for helping the country.
That's the governor's job.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(5) The reporters says, "But all this stuff is in the past.
In the present, it's an emergency."
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(4) The toothless guy says that the governor's policies have impacted truckers, so now truckers will show the country THEIR OWN suffering.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(3) The reporter CONFIRMS that the truck drivers are refusing to work in order to get revenge on the governor.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017(2) The toothless guy is complaining about a law that the governor passed three weeks ago.
Thomas Wictor (@ThomasWictor) October 1, 2017