Another fact that allowed Fascism to gain power over men was their blindness.
A man cannot believe that he is about to be destroyed.
The optimism of people standing on the edge of the grave is astounding.
Vasily Grossman.
I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn t lose voters.
Donald Trump.In the United States, people prove Godwin s Law to be true way too often.
Not every politician needs to be compared to Hitler, Mussolini, or any other well-known fascist.
It s especially obnoxious when right-wingers call leftists fascists.
Fascism is a right-wing ideology.Except when discussing Donald Trump.
Trump is definitely a fascist.
Or, at the very least, he is acting the part of one.
That way he can gain support from actual fascists, and to dominate the vapid corporate media with his atrocious rhetoric.There is a great video going around the internet that asks the question, Is Donald Trump a fascist?
The answer is yes.
Trump is a fascist.
The video doesn t overtly state that conclusion, though it does a great job of explaining why he might be, and why people are asking the question in the first place.
Here s the video:https://www.facebook.com/HuffPostPolitics/videos/10153699583882911/Is Donald Trump going to lead America into a completely fascist state, where Muslims and other minorities are rounded up and exterminated?
No.
The political philosopher Sheldon Wolin struck gold when he coined the term inverted totalitarianism to describe the rise of the United States predominately right-wing, corporate run, neoliberalist government.
I d highly recommend every progressive read Wolin s book, Democracy Incorporated: Managed Democracy and the Specter of Inverted Totalitarianism.
The real danger of Trump s fascism is that he is normalizing the ideals of fascism.
Facsist hate groups are loving every minute of Trump s campaign.
They have their own bully, bellowing the hatred and intolerance that is largely considered taboo to speak of.
This normalization of hatred and state violence is one of the first steps towards acts of genocide, and other horrific human rights abuses.Featured image from video screenshot via Facebook