Donald Trump has received a massive backlash over his comments directed at the Khizr Khan and his family.
Khan spoke out against Trump at the Democratic National Convention, lambasting the Republican presidential candidate to ban all Muslims from entering the United States.
During Kahn s speech, his wife, Ghazala Khan, stood beside him.
Trump later said that she did not speak during the event because she was not allowed to speak.
Although she did, later in a response to Trump that published in the Washington Post.On Sunday morning, Khan delivered a blistering response to Trump s attacks against his family during an interview on CNN s State of the Union.
During the interview, Khan said that Trump is a black soul.
For this candidate for presidency to not be aware of the respect of a gold star mother standing there, and he had to take that shot at her, this is height of ignorance.
This is why I showed him that constitution.
Had he read that, he would know what status a gold star mother holds in that nation.
This country holds such a person in the highest regard.
And he has no knowledge, no awareness.
That is height of his ignorance.
She is ill. She had high blood pressure.
People that know her, looked at her face, and she said, I may fall off the stage.
And I told her that, you have to assemble yourself and stand for the beauty of this tribute that is being paid.
This person is totally incapable of empathy.
I want his family to counsel him, teach him some empathy.
He will be a better person if he could become but he is a black soul.
Trump s attacks against the Khan family are despicable but they are nothing new.
The vile remarks he has been making against Muslims, in general, have always been attacks against the Khan family.
They are attacks against Muslim families all over the world who have done nothing wrong.
Trump is now learning the hard way that his words do, in fact, have consequences.
Those consequences are going to bite him hard during the rest of the general election.You can watch the interview below, in full.Featured image via video screen capture