Donald Trump likes to whine about any poll that doesn t show him in a favorable light, calling the data biased or dishonest but here s one poll that he cannot ignore.A new Politico/Morning Consult poll covering numbers as recent as March 24-25 shows that Trump s approval ratings are plummeting even among his own supporters.
Trump has been shown to be failing in more balance polls, which is no surprise but to see his support dwindling so quickly among Republicans is quite shocking.
According to the data, Trump s ratings are now as follows: Overall, 38 percent of voters strongly disapprove of Trump, compared to only 23 percent who strongly approve.
To make matters even worse for Trump, this national tracking poll had a tendency to lean pro-Trump, which made the findings far higher than a more balanced poll like Gallup s most recent data, which shows Trump s approval rating at a pathetic 38%.It appears as though Trump s disastrous failure with the American Health Care Act (Trumpcare) had an extremely negative impact on his approval rating, which fell 6% points among his own supporters.
The Politico/Morning Consult poll reported: The decline in Trump s approval rating was sharper among Republicans and independents than among Democrats.
In the latest survey, 81 percent of Republicans and 39 percent of independents approve of the job Trump is doing.
A week prior, 85 percent of GOP voters and 44 percent approved.
And among those who self-identified as Trump voters last year, the president s approval rating shrunk from 90 percent last week to 84 percent this week.
However, it s not just Trump s health care debacle that is impacting his numbers so much his Russia scandal is also working against him: Twenty-nine percent of voters call Russia an enemy of the U.S., and 30 percent say it is an unfriendly nation.
Only 7 percent call Russia an ally, and another 22 percent say it s friendly but not an ally.
Five weeks ago, voters were divided evenly on whether Russia was friendly toward the United States.
Trump was an extremely unpopular president to begin with, and he has failed to redeem or prove himself to the American people.
In fact, he hasn t even tried and his supporters are catching on.
They ve practically disappeared and seem ashamed to defend him after his corruption, humiliating behavior, and broken campaign promises have come to light.
With numbers this pathetic, Trump and his policies don t stand a chance.Featured image via Gage Skidmore / Flickr