Pope Francis is now the anti-Christ in the eyes of Donald Trump supporters, including a delusional GOP lawmaker in New Hampshire.Nearly a week ago, the pontiff criticized Donald Trump s stance on immigrants by calling him a fake Christian.
A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not of building bridges, is not Christian, Pope Francis said.
This is not the gospel.
Donald Trump later responded by telling Pope Francis that he ll wish Donald Trump were president when ISIS attacks the Vatican.
It was a vicious rant that turned Trump s supporters into instant Pope Francis haters.One of those Trump supporters is New Hampshire GOP Rep. Susan DeLemus, who took to Facebook last Thursday to point-blank call the Pope the anti-Christ.Her original post was just images of her favorite verses from the book of Psalms.
But after one of her friends asked her if she had heard Pope Francis remarks about Trump she commented, The Pope is the anti-Christ.
Do your research.
When another friend expressed doubt about the Pope being the anti-Christ, DeLemus responded, I m not sure who the Pope truly has in his heart.
Here s a screenshot of the exchange via Facebook.When asked about her comments, DeLemus told Politico that she was talking about the entire papacy, and used her Geneva Bible as proof that the Pope is the anti-Christ because she claims the Founding Fathers wrote notes in it pointing to the Pope as the anti-Christ.
I was actually referencing the papacy, she said.
And what I wrote after that do your research, if you read the Geneva Bible, which is the Bible I use when we study, the commentary is actually by the founders of the United States actually, the Protestant Church their commentary references the papacy as the anti-Christ.
Yeah, that s not going to make Catholics feel alienated at all.
There are 69 million Catholics in the United States, and you have to wonder how they feel about one of Trump s biggest supporters calling their religious leader the most evil figure in all Christendom.
Featured Image: Facebook