It s going to be a long four years if Donald Trump is going to keep threatening anyone who says something bad about him.Just imagine if President Obama had filed defamation lawsuits against every conservative who ever called him the N-word.
Republicans would have thrown a giant temper tantrum.But Donald Trump is apparently going to try to silence people by threatening them with lawsuits, which is something he did to actor Tom Arnold this week after Arnold revealed that he has tapes from Celebrity Apprentice showing Trump calling his own son a retard and saying the N-word.
When the people sent it to me, it was funny, Arnold said during a radio show on Friday.
Hundreds of people have seen these.
It was sort of a Christmas video they put together.
He wasn t going to be president of the United States.
It was him sitting in that chair saying the N-word, saying the C-word, calling his son a retard, just being so mean to his own children.
Oh, this is so funny, this is this guy.
Now, Arnold never actually said that he would ever release these tapes, but that has changed because Trump escalated the issue by threatening Arnold with a defamation lawsuit.Arnold revealed on Twitter Wednesday that someone from Trump s team left a message on his voicemail at home.Wife told me there s house line VM from Trump Camp about defamation suit so it s on!
Open Apprentice vaults 4 discovery!
Miss Universe too!!
Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) December 21, 2016So even though Trump is set to take over the presidency in January and the fact that these tapes would do nothing to change that now, Trump has such a fragile ego that he s willing to threaten people with lawsuits for simply saying they have video of Trump being a complete asshole.Trump is being petty by threatening Arnold, and the fact that Trump did so must mean Arnold has something on him that he wants to keep buried.Seriously, it s time for Trump to grow the hell up and learn to take criticism.
He s about to hold public office now.
Just running for office in the first place opened himself up to this stuff.
So he has nobody but himself to blame.Featured Image: Mark Wallheiser/Getty Images