It s the beginning of the new year, and the Iowa caucus is about a month away.
With it comes some big time pandering from the presidential candidates scurrying to gather up as many votes as possible.
A big win in Iowa could mean the difference between gaining momentum for the remainder of the race, proving the legitimacy of your candidacy to voters everywhere, or just plain calling it quits.
For some, it s Iowa or bust.
Carly Fiorina is one of those people.So, with that, it s probably no surprise that Carly Fiorina is doing everything she can to improve her dismal 2% poll numbers.
Get a load of this, though: She tweeted on Friday that she wanted the Iowa Hawkeyes to beat her alma mater Stanford during the Rose Bowl.Pic via Twitter.How stupid does she think Iowa voters are?
In any case, not only did it NOT work, but it ended up backfiring on her Twitter absolutely roasted her for it.
Even though most of the world already knew she had no backbone and is fake as you know what, this just further proves it.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Those tweets aren t even the half of it.
All it took was eleven simple words, and all pandemonium broke out.
A natural explanation would be that people just like picking on politicians, but the truth is Carly brought this on herself.
You should NEVER root against your own alma mater to pander to votes, NEVER, EVER, EVER, EVER.
People would actually have more respect for you if you stuck to your guns.
People aren t going to change their votes simply because you like the same football team as them.
At least, we certainly would hope not.We have more faith in the American people than that, even though, quite honestly, it s pretty low now given how people like Donald Trump can lead in the polls (we ll give you that much).
All this proves is that Carly thinks Republicans in Iowa are dumb enough to fall for something like this.
And, as much as we d like to disprove it, we simply don t have any evidence that they re any smarter.Featured image via Flickr.