The National Rifle Association, who has become nothing but the marketing arm of gun manufacturers, is panicking.
Gun sales are down since the black guy left the White House.
Now that they can t sell guns on the false fear that the President will take them away, they are proud to sell guns on the idea that cops aren t enough to take care of all the marauding liberals (a.k.a.
The Resistance), so good ole white NRA members (more on that in a moment) will have to take it into their own hands.Dana Loesch is a regular contributor on right-wing media circuits.
She writes for Glenn Beck s The Blaze, and is often seen on Fox News.
She s also an NRA spokesperson.
In the dystopian video, which was first posted on the NRA s YouTube channel, but has since gone viral, Loesch uses visceral terms like They (liberals) use their media to assassinate real news.
Then the images became violent, with the inference that anti-Trump protests are violent (very few are) and that cops are unable to handle the masses.
The only way we stop this, Loesch says, the only way to save our country and our freedom is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth.
Gee, I wonder what the NRA wants to put inside that clenched fist?Here s the video, which might not be appropriate for children or for unhinged adults, but then again unhinged adults are the NRA s biggest audience:Loesch defended the ad, actually, she doubled down on it by saying she was proud of the message.I want to make one thing perfectly clear, I am proud of this ad and I endorse personally the message of this ad.
It s a fantastic ad and it holds up a mirror to the violent aspects of the left.The NRA and the violent right have become empowered, especially after an alleged Bernie Sanders supporter shot Rep. Steve Scalise at a Republican congressional baseball practice.
Comedian Kathy Griffin and actor Johnny Depp haven t helped either.
What we aren t seeing on the news, though, is that the election of Trump has ramped up right-wing violence far more than left-wing.In the days immediately following President Trump s election, hate crimes in the United States soared, reaching nearly 900 nationwide.
Since then, the self-described alt-right movement and its cohort of fascists, racists and white supremacists of all stripes have only been emboldened by having Trump and white nationalist Steve Bannon in the White House.The level of violent hate crimes committed in recent months is staggering.Source: In These TimesNow, it s not as if the NRA wants everyone to be armed, or at least they aren t going to protect everyone s right to be armed.
They ve been famously silent about the death of licensed African-American gun owner Philando Castile at the hands of cops.Featured image via video screen capture