The chorus of voices saying, Show us your taxes, has been growing steadily as Trump continues to hide behind the flimsy excuse of an audit for keeping them hidden.
Now, documents obtained by The New York Times may easily explain why he doesn t want the public to see them: While we all have been diligently paying our taxes each year, he very well may not have paid any income taxes at all for the last 18 years.18 years.
That s astounding.
That s disgusting, particularly for someone with a really fat bank account that s running for President.
Trump has likely has paid so much less than his fair share that he helped to bilk the American people out of much needed services.What did the Times find?
In 1995, Trump declared a $916 million loss on his taxes.
That s a big enough loss to wipe out his federal income tax for the $50,000 to $100,000 he made on each and every episode of The Apprentice, and the $45 million he earned serving as chairman of the company that owned his failing casinos in Atlantic City from 1995 to 2009.Joel Rosenfeld, an assistant professor at New York University s Schack Institute of Real Estate, and also a tax expert, told the Times: He has a vast benefit from his destruction.
Yes he does.
Atlantic City and New Jersey were left picking up the pieces of his failed ventures there.
But what s more damning is what Rosenfeld would say if a client came to him with a $916 million loss like Trump s: Do you realize you can create $916 million in income without paying a nickel in taxes?
Wow.
Yes, Trump was taking advantage of a tax system that s very heavily weighted in favor of real estate investors, and many would say that s just good business.
However, just because something is legal doesn t make it right.
Furthermore, when the issue of his taxes came up in the debate, and Hillary brought up his bragging that he pays as little as possible in taxes, he said: That makes me smart.
Oh please.
Smart?
Many would say yes.
However, that s anything but patriotic or presidential.
It s selfish.
It s shockingly selfish.
It harms the veterans he claims to want to help, and the infrastructure he claims to want to fix, and everything else he claims he can turn around in his quest to enrich himself turn America into a shining golden city on a hill.And yet, this is the biggest example yet of his sheer hypocrisy.
So is his campaign s statement on the matter: Mr. Trump is a highly-skilled businessman who has a fiduciary responsibility to his business, his family and his employees to pay no more tax than legally required.
That being said, Mr. Trump has paid hundreds of millions of dollars in property taxes, sales and excise taxes, real estate taxes, city taxes, state taxes, employee taxes and federal taxes.Mr.
Trump knows the tax code far better than anyone who has ever run for President and he is the only one that knows how to fix it.
No, he wants to tilt it even further towards people like himself.
Trump himself hasn t said anything about this on Twitter yet, but expect him to soon.
Perhaps at 3 a.m., when he s writhing in fury on his bed that the Times has unmasked him yet again.Featured image by Spencer Platt/Getty Images