Caroline Kennedy, daughter of President John F. Kennedy, has left her post as Ambassador to Japan.
After being forced out by the incoming Trump Administration (with no replacement) Kennedy is returning back to civilian life in New York.According to the New York Post, Kennedy is eyeing a potential Senate bid in New York for 2018, in which she would face popular incumbent Kirsten Gillibrand and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney.But the sources from the Post also say Kennedy s eye is going even further, which includes a White House bid in 2020.
Should Trump still be in office (and seek a second term), Kennedy would be seen as a liberal alternative to the populist billionaire.According to one source, who is close to the Kennedy family and Caroline Kennedy herself: Caroline had a successful ambassadorial run in Japan and feels really very confident about putting her hat in the ring for a New York congressional or Senate seat, with even possibly bigger political objectives down the road.
Another source added: Caroline is seen in some quarters as the next Hillary Clinton.
She has the Kennedy name but no Clinton baggage.
After serving as Ambassador for three years, Kennedy oversaw an expansion of relations between the U.S. and Japan, which included controversial stances against whaling, and ending nuclear arms expansions.During Kennedy s tenure, her office came under intense scrutiny from the Inspector General s office.
The report, which was described as damning, alleges that Kennedy, like Hillary Clinton, used a private email server and mismanaged many aspects of her office.
Kennedy has defended her use of private email, as well as her handling of the Ambassador s office.Before becoming a diplomat, Kennedy had been a steadfast advocate for many progressive issues, including her uncle Ted s mission in life universal healthcare.
Kennedy also holds progressive views on a variety of social issues, which include supporting abortion rights and LGBT causes.
She has called for reauthorizing the assault weapons ban, and says NAFTA needs to be re-examined.
One issue that bogged Clinton down in the primary was her initial support for the Iraq War, but Kennedy claims to have opposed it from the beginning.While Kennedy has the money (her net worth lies between $80 million and $500 million), the name recognition, and the support to run, nothing has been set in stone.
Everything is speculative.Aside from Senator Cory Booker, Kennedy has become the first rumored potential candidate for the 2020 election season.Featured image via Slaven Vlasic via Getty Images