Two years ago, Cleveland, Tenn., businessman Allan Jones was proudly showing off his newly acquired Hardwick Clothing-brand suits by providing the wardrobe for NBC s on-air talent during the network s broadcasts of NFL football games.But after NFL players and coaches challenged President Donald Trump and many took a knee during the national anthem played before their games over the weekend, Jones said he is through sponsoring the wardrobes or advertising on stations that air the National Football League.Jones, CEO of the payday lending chain Check Into Cash and owner of Hardwick Clothes America s oldest suitmaker tweeted his criticism and change of heart Tuesday.
Our companies will not condone unpatriotic behavior!
said Jones, CEO of the payday lending chain Check Into Cash and owner of Hardwick Clothes America s oldest suit maker.
For the 29 states we operate in, this isn t much to them, but it s a lot to us.
The Tombras Group is our ad agency in Knoxville and our national media buyer for both TV and radio (for Check Into Cash) and don t look for Hardwick on the NFL either.
Jones, a strong supporter of Trump, directed his media buyer, the Tombras Group in Knoxville, to remove any commercials for Check Into Cash, Buy Here Pay Here USA, or U.S. Money Stores from airing during NFL games for the entire season.
Times Free PressAllan Jones appeared on Fox and Friends shortly after Donald Trump s inauguration to express his enthusiasm for his presidency and for his willingness to make American manufacturing a priority.
Watch:The Story of Hardwick Clothes, Inc.Hardwick manufacturing plant is located on the outskirts of Cleveland, TN.
The expansive new facility and modernized manufacturing equipment helped Hardwick stay competitive against an increasing supply of cheap, offshore clothing.Hardwick s reputation for American-made quality has helped the company survive and thrive in the face of outsourcing and cost-cutting.
This status has helped Hardwick land contracts with a wide range of large clients, including the U.S. military and Major League Baseball umpires.Since its founding in 1880, Hardwick Clothes has endured factory fires, economic recessions, two World Wars, inflation and leisure suits.
Despite these challenges, Hardwick Clothes has continued to produce unsurpassed suits, pants, and jackets for men and women, operating successfully with pride and quality.In June 2014, the company was acquired by Allan Jones, a prominent Cleveland, Tennessee, entrepreneur.
Jones stated that Hardwick appealed to him because it was the oldest business of its kind in America.
He announced his commitment to increased investment in the firm to help it regain its rightful status at the summit of the American clothing industry.