Amateur president Donald Trump s repeated attacks on former FBI James Comey, the man who was leading the investigation into possible collusion between the former reality show star s campaign and Russia, only make him look complicit.
In Comey s hometown, Allendale, New Jersey, the residents admire the former FBI Director.
In Trump s hometown, Manhattan, the alleged president is hated.Trump called Comey a showboat and a grandstander but residents of Allendale know Comey as a man who knows right from wrong.It was revealed yesterday that Trump told Russian officials that James Comey is a nut job, then bragged that firing the former FBI Director eased great pressure from the Russia-collusion investigation.
I just fired the head of the F.B.I.
He was crazy, a real nut job, Trump told the Russian officials, according to the New York Times.
I faced great pressure because of Russia.
That s taken off.
I m not under investigation, Trump added.Comey s father, a Republican, thinks Trump is nuts and belongs in an institution.J.
Brien Comey, 86, turned Trump s harsh opinion of his son against him.
I never was crazy about Trump, said Mr. Comey.
I m convinced that he s nuts.
I thought he belonged in an institution.
He was crazy before he became president.
Now he s really crazy.
Comey is known as a man who leaves a paper trail.
Comey penned memos to detail conversations he had with Trump, and even worse for the alleged president, the former FBI Director has agreed to testify publicly before the Senate Intelligence Committee at a date to be set after Memorial Day.
The Committee looks forward to receiving testimony from the former director on his role in the development of the Intelligence Community Assessment on Russian interference in the 2016 US elections, and I am hopeful that he will clarify for the American people recent events that have been broadly reported in the media, Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said in a statement.The walls are closing in on Mr. Trump.
It appears that his son-in-law Jared Kushner is a person of interest in the Russia investigation.To his own detriment, Trump seems to be trying hard to bring an obstruction of justice case against himself.
The former reality show star doesn t think before he tweets or speaks, nor does he think about who he s speaking to.
Telling Russian officials that he fired Comey to relieve pressure from an investigation just screams obstruction of justice.
Trump must feel isolated after trashing his own staff with threats of shaking up the White House.
His team defended him daily on news shows but now, they re MIA.
He came at Comey, and karma is about to strike.
Comey will testify and his father, a Republican, thinks Trump needs to be locked up in an institution.
We hope Trump will be haunted forever by the lock her up chants ringing out at his rallies.
Life comes at you fast.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images.