Mike Lee (R-Utah) has been a major figure in among Congressional Republicans in the #NeverTrump movement.
Following the release of audio recordings from 2005 that show just how much of a violent misogynist Donald Trump actually is, Lee has called for Trump to drop out of the race.
Lee posted a video to his Facebook page where he gives a scathing response to Trump.
During the video the senator says: If anyone spoke to my wife or my daughter or my mother or any of my five sisters the way [Donald Trump] has spoken to women, I wouldn t hire that person.
I wouldn t hire that person, wouldn t want to be associated with that person, and I certainly don t think I d feel comfortable hiring that person to be the leader of the free world.
Lee is absolutely correct.
Imagine if Trump sat down in a job interview and the person interviewing him heard what Trump said in 2005.
No one in their right mind would hire a person like that.
That isn t all Lee had to say.
He goes on to lambast the Republican nominee calling for him to drop out and let someone else run in his place.
Your conduct, sir, is the distraction.
It s the distraction from the very principles that will help us win in November.
You yourself, sir, Mr. Trump, have stated repeatedly that the goal, the objective, has got to be to defeat Hillary Clinton in November.
I couldn t agree more.
Mr. Trump, I respectfully ask you, with all due respect to step aside.
Step down.
Allow someone else to carry the banner of these principles.
Trump has no experience, no civility, and no practical policy ideas.
If he was a prospective employee for any modern company, he would not be hired.
It s ridiculous to think that a person whose public behavior would keep them out of even entry level positions could possibly be deemed qualified to be the president of the United States.
What every voter in the United States needs to ask themselves especially women is if they would enjoy having Trump as a boss.
Would they feel comfortable working in an environment where they knew that their boss held openly violent misogynistic views?
How about f the fathers and husbands out there knew that their wife or daughter was working for a man like Trump?
I certainly wouldn t and I couldn t think of a single person who would want to live in such a nightmare scenario.
Lee cannot say it, though he must know that having Trump drop out of the race at this point in the election would mean a landslide victory for Hillary Clinton.
It could also possibly do major in down ballot elections across the nation, further jeopardizing the GOP s control of Congress.
Lee and others appear willing to take that risk to prevent a Trump administration.
That should tell every voter out there just exactly how important it is to keep Trump out of office.Watch:Featured image from video screenshot