Bill O Reilly is a real piece of work.
On his show, he often passes judgment on those he believes aren t upholding what he considers family values , while when not in front of a Fox News camera, his home life disintegrates around him.Recently, the host, who once accused Beyonce of singing gangsta rap that encouraged young girls to get pregnant, suffered a civil court deathblow when a panel of judges granted his ex-wife Maureen McPhilmy sole custody of the pair s two children based partly on some of the disturbing statements from the children themselves.
O Reilly s daughter once told investigators that fights between her parents could reach the point of violence thanks to O Reilly s legendary temper.
[A] court-appointed forensic examiner testified at a closed hearing that O Reilly s daughter claimed to have witnessed her father dragging McPhilmy down a staircase by her neck, apparently unaware that the daughter was watching.
The precise date of the alleged incident is unclear, but appears to have occurred before the couple separated in 2010.
The same source indicated that the daughter, who is 16 years old, told the forensic examiner about the incident within the past year.O Reilly ongoing ugly separation with his former wife took another twist this week when O Reilly s lawyers announced that they would be pursuing a lawsuit against McPhilmy.
Her crime was that she went on to have another relationship after she left O Reilly (but prior to their legal divorce).
Or as O Reilly calls that: Fraud.Gawker notes:According to court documents filed late last month, however, O Reilly intends to sue McPhilmy for $10 million on charges of misleading him about the terms of their separation agreement.
In the same papers, the Fox News host accuses McPhilmy of using the proceeds of their separation to underwrite an affair with another man.
And he wants the entire lawsuit to proceed in secret.O Reilly claims that his separation agreement, which included financial compensation to McPhilmy should be invalid because she was in a relationship with another man.
It s not entirely clear why.
One theory is that this is really about control.
O Reilly doesn t like the idea that his ex-wife gets to live her life out from under his thumb especially if she got to keep some of his money in the divorce.That would fall in line with O Reilly s deeply troubling actions in the wake of his marriage woes.
When he suspected his wife of having an affair in the first place, he used his political and financial power to try to persuade his local police department to harass the suspected interloper (who was a police detective on Long Island).
The police department appears to have done O Reilly s bidding, ordering a bewildered internal affairs officer to mess with the detective in order to get him to stop dating O Reilly estranged wife.
The police ordered [Internal Affairs detective] Harasym to meet with two private detectives working on behalf of Bill O Reilly.
They had information about an NCPD officer they believed to be carrying on with O Reilly s wife.
Delargy told Harasym to launch an investigation into the man and to tell him to end the relationship.Instead O Reilly lost his wife, his kids, and any claim he ever had to get to be sanctimonious in front of a camera.
With nothing left to lose, O Reilly appears to want vengeance instead.
It s hard to imagine a court will side with him, but it does present O Reilly the opportunity to once again make his ex-wife s life miserable.
It may not be family values, but it s certainly O Reilly s values.Featured image via The Blaze