Conservative economist Ben Stein just let everyone know how much he hates Republican front runner Donald Trump.
Basically, there aren t enough words to describe how batsh*t crazy Stein thinks Trump is, and how terrifying the leading GOP candidate s lack of experience and ignorance on economics is.In an interview with CNN s Pamela Brown, Stein spoke at length about what he thought of Trump s grand vision for America s economy, after listening to the business mogul spew nonsense about an impeding recession and financial bubble.
Stein said: In all of my years as an economist, which is roughly 50 years, I ve never seen such nonsense as we just heard from Mr. Trump.
And it breaks my heart, it makes me want to cry because I m Republican, I ve never voted for a Democrat, and to think the guy who s our likely standard bearer has such nonsensical ideas on every single aspect of the economy is just breathtakingly horrible.
Stein insisted that Trump has zero clue what he s talking about, and that it s horrifying .
The economist compared Trump s nonsensical and breathtakingly horrible rhetoric to being told men from Mars are coming down and he s gonna flap his wings and fly.
Stein went even further and said that it was only by sheer idiocy that anyone could support Trump s wacky ideas.Stein, like many before him, also made sure to point out that Trump s success in business (which isn t much when compared to other wealthy business men and considering all of Trump s failures) in no way qualifies him to speak on economics.
Stein found it baffling that Trump doesn t actually have any real economic advisers.
You know, I don t know what goes on in his head.
He s a force of nature.
I don t know what goes on in his head.
But it s frightening that he has no economist advisers.
Carl Icahn, a very smart guy on Wall Street who s made a great deal of money.
Steve Wynn who runs the best hotels in Las Vegas.
But as far as economic advisers, as far as I can tell, he doesn t have any and he desperately needs some.
The things he s saying are wacky as wacky can be.
Just off the charts.
You can watch Stein tear into Trump below:Stein s hatred for Trump is so great that the conservative has actually confessed he might switch teams and vote for Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders because he s confident that Trump will sink the Republican party.
Featured image via Getty Images / Win McNamee