The Providence (RI) City Council voted Thursday to give first passage to the Community Safety Act, a far-reaching ordinance designed to curb profiling by the city s police but the odd benefits it gives to criminals and specifically gang members has many in law enforcement shaking their head.The council voted 12-0 to approve the ordinance as hundreds of supporters cheered.
Mayor Jorge Elorza has already said he intends to sign it into law.After reading the details of this ordinance, the only ones that will be cheering in a few months will be the criminals.While the politicians covered up the terrible provisions in this act by saying that it was simply designed to curb profiling, what was really inside it will create one of the most lawless cities this country knows.The violent crime rate in Providence is already 134% higher than the state average and the passing of this ordinance will be the best thing that Rhode Island criminals have seen in some time.Developed by activist groups, the Community Safety Act is weighed heavily towards giving benefits to the criminal element.
If you don t believe us, just look at the official logo (above) of the Act.
It shows the police at the bottom, which is exactly where the politicians have placed them by passing this ordinance.No one in law enforcement will argue that racial profiling should not be eliminated but this Act uses that premise to handcuff law enforcement from simply doing their job.The international and extremely violent gang MS-13 that initiated in El Salvador and contains a large number of illegal immigrants here in the United States, has been thriving in Providence, RI for several years.
This new Safety Act will go a long way in helping this gang, that uses many of the same practices as ISIS to grow and prosper in Providence:Here are some of the items that the future victims of Providence Crime need to be aware of:And of course, the ordinance ends with an entire page on how police will be prosecuted and sued for any violation of anything in the ordinance of which must goes far and beyond any case law or practice that any agency in this country is currently doing.
Actually, the piles of paperwork that the Act requires of a police officer after they stop someone is done in another city .Chicago.
Hasn t that worked out well there?Now there will be some that are not educated in the dynamics of what this ordinance will cause that say we oppose this because we want police to racially profile others.
That is ridiculous.
It is against the law for race to be the sole indicator on profiling and no one in the profession agrees with racial profiling but passing this ordinance because a small section prohibits racial profiling is like eating a salad with a milk shake.
Any of the benefits of the salad go away after you drink the 1000 calorie shake.Let us be clear.
The City of Providence is in deep trouble.
Their crime rate is already off the chart and this Act gives all of the rights to criminals and in an odd way, gang members?Via: LawOfficerJesse Waters takes a look at Providence, RI to help understand why the unemployment is so high.
Perhaps instead of passing laws to protect criminals and illegal aliens, Providence should address the root cause of their problems, like fatherless children and an entire generation of drug dealers and slackers (***Warning***this video may make you miss Bill O Reilly and his honest assessment of our inner cities):