A new report from the New York Times finds that Donald Trump owes twice as much debt as he reported on his public election filings.The NY Times reports: Beyond finding that companies owned by Mr. Trump had debts of at least $650 million, The Times Discovered that a substantial portion of his wealth is tied up in three passive partnerships that owe an additional $2 billion to a string of lenders, including those that hold the loan on the Avenue of the Americas building.
If those loans were to go into default, Mr. trump might not be held personally liable, but the value of his investments would sink.
The NY Times points out that Trump probably didn t lie about the amount of debt he has in his public filings, it s just a matter of the forms that were filled out not being designed for a person who has as complex financial holdings as Trump does.What s really interesting about the report, is that it also shows Trump s one of the very few criticisms of Hillary Clinton shared by some on the left (which he stole from progressives anyway) is now rendered completely invalid for him to make, due to it being completely hypocritical.The NY Times reports: An office building on Avenue of the Americas in Manhattan, of which Mr. Trump is part owner, carries a $950 million loan.
Among the lenders: the Bank of China, one of the largest banks in a country that Mr. Trump has railed against as an economic foe of the United States, and Goldman Sachs, a financial institution he has said controls Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, after it paid her $675,000 in speaking fees.
Trump has positioned himself as a strong businessman throughout his presidential campaign.
However, he has come under fire from Democrats as report after report comes out showing that he is actually a huge failure in the world of business.
Most notably from Elizabeth Warren who has said that Donald Trump is a loser.
Count all his failed businesses.
See how he kept his father s empire afloat by cheating people with scams like Trump University and by using strategic corporate bankruptcy (excuse me, bankruptcies) to skip out on debt.
The report is damning and should give Democrats a few more talking points that show just how dangerous a Trump presidency would be for the United States.Featured image from Spencer Platt/Getty Images