A history teacher who openly ranted in the classroom about how much he hates Democrats and liberals forced his students to watch a film depicting the crucifixion of Jesus.Wilbur D. Mills High School in Little Rock, Arkansas has suspended Greg Hendrix after he intentionally brought his political and religious beliefs into his classroom in an effort to indoctrinate the students under his supervision.As students walked into the class to learn about American History since 1890, they soon realized the lesson for the day had nothing to do with the last 126 years, but would instead be on a controversial event that allegedly occurred over 2000 years ago.Hendrix played Mel Gibson s The Passion of the Christ, which included scenes of Jesus being violently tortured and nailed to a cross.
In protest, some students walked out rather than have religion shoved down their throats.Kristina Coffman was one of those students and she expressed discomfort over what Hendrix did.
It was weird, she told THV11.
He shouldn t have done it because there are a lot of students that have different religions.
It just didn t feel right.
One student even recorded Hendrix whining about Democrats and liberals and political correctness.In all, five students walked out of the classroom and some students who watched the film bullied others after doing so.
Hendrix also made students take a quiz about the movie afterwards.
Not only are parents angry, the ACLU isn t very happy about the situation either.Arkansas ACLU executive director Rita Sklar said the organization is considering filing an ethics complaint.
It s religious proselytization.
It has nothing to do with the class, which is history since 1890, Sklar said.
Kids having the religious liberty in school means they can express their religious views.
It doesn t mean the teacher can.
Here s the video via THV11:Indeed, by forcing students to view the film Hendrix clearly endorsed Christianity and violated the rights of every student in his classroom as well as failing to do his job protecting students and teaching the correct subject matter.
By showing this film, he also exposed the students to R-rated material that included graphic violence.
Many consider the film to be anti-Semitic and scholars have criticized the film for historical and biblical inaccuracies.Clearly, this film should never have been shown to students at all, and Hendrix should have focused on history after 1890.
Now he faces termination, and rightfully so.Featured image via Patheos