If you haven t discovered Austen Fletcher yet, please check him out on twitter and YouTube He goes in and opens up lefty brains with shocking facts He s awesome!Communist calls Trump supporting high school students 'white supremacists'.
Hilarity ensues!
#FleccasTalkshttps://t.co/M7VCVpmEUV pic.twitter.com/JHpygavsZw Austen Fletcher (@fleccas) November 2, 2017The entire video is below:Students at Cal State Fullerton attempted to shut down Milo Yiannopoulis right to free speech.
They end up looking like idiots!Townhall covered the idiocy:Halloween Night at Cal State Fullerton, I got to engage the crowd of students who would be protesting free speech absolutist and conservative provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos.
I didn t want to hear him.
I wanted to meet the students, see the force of outrage against his presence on the campus, and start changing some minds.In the beginning, I noticed that some protesters were wearing masks.
Law enforcement surrounded and arrested one of them.
Later that night, another Antifa thug got taken down after pepper-spraying others.
Perhaps it s time for local law enforcement to deputize the law-abiding citizens to arrest those who wear masks and menace peace-loving protesters.Like many others in the student quad, I came in my own custom: Arthur, i.e.
Arthur Reed the cartoon anteater (or Aardvark).
It works, don t you think?
Other costumes included Hugh Hefner, a pirate wrapped in rainbow feather boas, and a snowflake liberal.
The last one was a young man wearing bubble wrap all over his body.
Funny stuff!As soon as I arrived at the square, reporters and student journalists rushed towards me.
One guy asked me which was worse, feminism or cancer.
I said both .
Other students wanted to know why I was there, including the mainstream media reporters.
I want free speech restored and respected on college campuses, and I want to debunk the lies and mythologies about President Trump.Within minutes, a crazed black woman later identified as Keyanna Celina roared at me: White Supremacist!
Get out of here!
My friend Genevieve Peters tried to calm the situation.
Instead, Celina swiped at her, then beat her around the head multiple times before someone in the crowd fired pepper spray to stop Celina.Right on cue, the anti-Milo, anti-free speech fascists started chanting Fascists go home!
Fascists go home!
Instead of running away, I stood right in front of their protest, turned the cameras on them and shouted with them: Fascists go home!
Trick or treat!Full disclosure: I am no Milo fan.
But so what?
He has every right to speak at a college, and no one should prevent him!
Besides, I was more interested in listening to students, to find out why they were protesting, to get their views on key issues, and to stump for President Trump.
Some students accused me of starting fights.
I soon realized they were merely trying to silence me.
After deftly casting accusations aside, I began to realize why abject liberalism had taken hold on many of these young people.
Obviously, they don t hear other points of view, and thus anyone with a difference of opinion is wrong.
As I feared, most students are told what to think, not how to think.
Another problem was the sloppy misuse of terms.
One man claimed that 75% of the businesses in socialist dystopia Venezuela are privately owned.
Uh Nope!
Why would he believe this?
Because he didn t see the clear synonym between nationalization and socialization.