Amateur president Donald Trump loves Trumpcare, the GOP replacement for Obamacare even though everyone hates it.
Conservative groups, liberals and hospitals are all opposed to Trumpcare.
It benefits the wealthy while omitting the elderly and sick and if a health care plan doesn t help those who are not feeling well then what good is it?
Well, if it helps to keep Republicans in power, then there s a chance that the sh*tty replacement plan will pass anyway.
While most of Americans were sleeping, the House committee scored an initial triumph in their effort to scuttle former President Barack Obama s health care overhaul, using a pre-dawn vote, and while that took place, Congress members were literally giggling.
That happened at 2:00 a.m.Meanwhile, Trump has warned Republicans that there will be an electoral bloodbath in 2018 if the bill isn t passed.
Trump is so proud of the crappy health care plan that White House counselor Kellyanne Conway doesn t want Trump s name attached to it.
They know it s that bad but eradicating former President Barack Obama s legacy is more important than the welfare of American citizens.Trump s newest move is to throw more rallies, just as one does after winning an election (wink wink).
After the election, Trump went on a thank you tour, then instead of getting to work, the 70-year-old Twitter addicted ragey screamy guy held another rally in Florida.Jim Acosta, CNN s White House correspondent, tweeted, Trump confident health care will pass House but for Senate he plans football stadium rallies in red states to prod vulnerable Dems.
Trump confident health care will pass House but for Senate he plans "football stadium rallies" in red states to prod vulnerable Dems.
https://t.co/xr6Xvagf0k Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 9, 2017And if that doesn t work, just blame Democrats.Trump told Tea Party groups at WH if GOP health care plan dies, he will let Obamacare fail and let Dems take the blame, I'm told.
Jim Acosta (@Acosta) March 9, 2017We don t think Trump has thought this out even though OBVIOUSLY what this country needs is never-ending rallies to feed his massive ego.
It s not just Democrats opposing the bill, it s Republicans, too.
Trump, you cannot threaten us with more rallies.
We think the dwindling number of supporters at his rallies is hysterical.
Trump supporters stand to be affected more if and when Obamacare is dismantled.Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images.