The cops are out of control.
They have appointed themselves judge, jury, and executioner in too many cases to count now, and here is yet another.
Police in San Francisco executed a 26-year-old black man, Mario Woods, by shooting him twenty-one times.
Two of those shots were to his head, according the an autopsy report obtained by local CBS affiliate KRON-4.In this particular case, San Francisco Chief of Police Greg Suhr did the usual, and lied about a dead man s actions in order cover up the fact that his officers used excessive deadly force against Woods, claiming that the suspect lunged at the officers and refused to drop the knife he was supposedly carrying.
Woods was being approached because the cops believed that he had stabbed someone.
However, video taken by witnesses reveal otherwise.
Woods did not lunge at anyone, and he was outnumbered five to one with armed and trained police officers.Thanks to the medical examiner s report and the fact that the bullet casings from all 27 shots that were fired have been found, the cops have been forced to backtrack on their lies.
They are now saying that the current narrative appears to corroborate facts gathered by investigators in the aftermath of this tragic incident.
They went on to say: The department is committed to a thorough review of the shooting and this report will be an important component of all three ongoing independent investigations.
The shooting is under investigation by the police department itself, as well as two other independent city agencies, the San Francisco District Attorney s Office, and the San Francisco Office of Citizen Complaints.
Likely, they hope to be able to investigate themselves and find that they did nothing wrong.
Not so fast on this one, though.The Mayor of San Francisco, Ed Lee, has inquired of the Department of Justice and Attorney General Loretta Lynch for a federal investigation into this deadly shooting.
The San Francisco Board of Supervisors want an investigation into not only this police shooting, but those of two other black men who were shot and killed by San Francisco cops.
That Blue Wall of Silence won t help ya on this one, boys.Mario Woods mother, Gwendolyn Woods, has also filed a wrongful death suit against the city.
Her attorney, John Burris, says of the situation: The fact is he was shot in the back.
The significance to me is most of the officers who were shooting were not being threatened at the time they fired those weapons.
Of course, the cops and the city are trying to paint Mario Woods in a bad light, saying in their response to Mrs. Woods lawsuit that her son advanced abruptly toward the officers and an armed and dangerous suspect in a violent felony.
But John Burris isn t buying that, and says that Woods was not a threat to the lives of the officers, despite the fact that the city says that those cops were in the right.
But Burris says: You know you can t just use deadly force against someone who is not threatening you.
And that is the bottom line.
In this case, and so many others, cops use deadly force not because it was warranted, but because they can, and then they get their stories straight and cover it up.
That is absolutely despicable, and yet in so many cases they get away with it.Sue the hell out of them, Mrs. Woods.
I hope you have their badges, too.Featured image from video screen capture via Filming Cops