We just reported on the Virginia shooter s message to Karen Handel (see below) and now this.
Is anyone going to want to be a candidate for anything if this threatening behavior continues?
The left has gotten so dangerous in their rhetoric and their violence.
Whoever did this should be punished to the max to set an example for other leftists.Georgia Republican Karen Handel s neighborhood HAS BEEN BLOCKED OFF after reports that letters containing a white powdery substance and calling Handel a dirty fascist were left at homes of her neighbors.Police officers have been going from mailbox to mailbox after finding the suspicious package, according to local reports, which also indicate that Roswell police continue to flood to the area.The content of the threatening letter, posted below, contains graphic language.
Your neighbor Karen Handel is a dirty fascist cunt but I m sure you already knew that, the letter says, according to a picture.
Take a whiff of the powder and join her in the hospital you Bourgeoisie motherfuckers.
RESIST THE FASCIST TAKEOVER!!!
!, it says.
STRING UP THE COLLABORATORS!
The situation is being monitored by local WSB-TV by a helicopter.Handel acknowledged the reports and said her campaign was coordinating with local law enforcement.
This afternoon we had some suspicious packages delivered to our house and to our neighbors, Handel said.
The packages contained threatening letters and a suspicious substance.
The police were quickly notified and street is now being blocked off.
We will continue to coordinate with law enforcement as necessary.
OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON HANDEL S RESPONSE TO THE VIRGINIA SHOOTER:Candidate Handel s Excellent Response to Alexandria Shooter Calling Her A Republican B**ch PLEASE NOTE THAT HANDEL AND DEMOCRAT JOHN OSOFF ARE IN A BATTLE THAT WILL TAKE PLACE ON JUNE 20TH IN THE 6TH DISTRICT GEORGIA RUNOFF GET OUT AND VOTE HANDEL!IF YOU WANT TO DONATE TO KAREN HANDEL: DONATE HEREKaren Handel, the Republican candidate for Congress in Georgia s sixth district, on Wednesday afternoon addressed that morning s shooting at a Republican congressional baseball team practice.A gunman who police identified as James T. Hodgkinson opened fire on Republican lawmakers practicing for a charity baseball game in Alexandria, Va., wounding five people including House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R., La.).
Hodgkinson had penned a Facebook rant against Handel last week.
My thoughts are with the victims of this morning s despicable, unprovoked attack on the Republican congressional softball team, wrote Handel, Georgia s former secretary of state.
Representative Scalise is a friend, and my heart goes out to him and his family.
Steve and I wish him and the others wounded a speedy recovery.
They remain in our thoughts and prayers.
I also want to commend the heroic actions of the Capitol Police officers who clearly prevented today s attack from being a much bigger tragedy, she wrote.Handel also addressed expletive comments that Hodgkinson made about her on social media.Hodgkinson posted an article about Handel to his Facebook, calling her a Republican Bitch who wants People to Work for Slave Wages, NBC affiliate WXIA reported.
Republican Bitch Wants People to Work for Slave Wages, when a Livable Wage is the Only Way to Go!
Vote Blue, It s Right for You!
Hodgkinson wrote on Facebook.
I am aware that the suspect recently made vile comments about me on social media, Handel said in her statement.
It also appears that the suspect targeted members of Congress specifically because he disagreed with their views.
Hodgkinson s social media posts indicate he was a supporter of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I., Vt.) and loathed President Donald Trump and Republican policies.Handel echoed calls by others, including House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.), for bipartisan unity following the attack.
We should not allow our political differences to escalate to violent attacks.
We must all refuse to allow the politics of our country to be defined in this way, she wrote.
Now more than ever, we must unite as a one nation under God.
It is incumbent upon all of us to work together in a civil and productive way, even when we disagree.
READ MORE: WFB