North Carolina is in a world of trouble.
Their bathroom law, which tells transgender people that they must use the bathroom of the gender on their birth certificate, has led to businesses fleeing or avoiding the state so they don t sully their own brands.
That includes the NBA and the 2017 All-Star Game, which forced the state s legislature to come up with a fix so they could keep the All-Star game.The All-Star Game was supposed to be in Charlotte next year.
Charlotte wants to be friendly, compassionate and inclusive, and they re upset with the state legislature overriding the law they put in place that allowed transgender people to use the bathroom that went with their gender identity without making them feel like they have to produce documentation just to take a piss.
The NBA feels the same way, and issued the following statement on the matter:.
@NBA and the Charlotte Hornets come out swinging against #HB2, saying they re not pleased with the amended version: pic.twitter.com/OHNwAJbhCg Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) June 30, 2016 We have been engaged in dialogue with numerous groups at the city and state levels, but we do not endorse the version of the bill that we understand is currently before the legislature.
We remain committed to our guiding principles of inclusion, mutual respect and equal protections for all.
We continue to believe that constructive engagement with all sides is the right path forward.
There has been no new decision made regarding the 2017 NBA All-Star Game.
Well, isn t that a nice way of saying, You re still a bunch of bigots, now kindly go fuck yourselves.
The fix is actually no fix at all, and it does reveal North Carolina s GOP as the stodgy bigots they are.
It actually makes things worse.
Transgender people have to obtain a certificate of sex reassignment in order to use the bathroom that corresponds with their gender identity.
Imagine all the hoops they ll have to jump through just to get that certificate.
Then there are all the transgender people who haven t yet had, or aren t able to (for whatever reason) have reassignment surgery.
This fix doesn t include them at all.The GOP thinks they re playing both sides though anything to be able to continue policing people s genitals and dictating where they can pee while ignoring real problems and avoiding real work.The problem is that these hidebound Neanderthals in Republican legislatures want to eat their cake and have it, too.
They re either discriminating or they re not there s no two ways about it.
North Carolina wants to appease the LGBT community and all their allies while still being able to push them down.
Give it up, N.C.Featured image by Vaughn Ridley/Getty Images