Ivanka Trump has been sort of the female face of her father s campaign, but despite being a woman, she really doesn t get it.
That s quite evident in her new video touting her father s childcare plan, which she kicks off with following gender stereotyping words: The most important job any woman can have is being a mother.
That is the height of irony, considering the fact that this video is directed towards working mothers.
Working mothers value their jobs and their children, and many resent being shunted into sexist gender roles like this.
Such a dismissive attitude toward women, both mothers and non-mothers, will do nothing to warm them up to Trump at all.But wait!
There s more.
Ivanka goes on to say: Donald Trump understands the needs of the modern workforce.
Har de har har.
Don t make us laugh too hard, it hurts.
Ivanka s father once said that pregnancy is an inconvenience for business, and told a woman she was disgusting for needing to pump her breasts.
He s a serial cheater, a serial sexual harasser, and a serial body-shamer.The AP published a story earlier today that exposes Trump s harassment of women on the set of The Apprentice.
According to that story, he rated women contestants on the size of their breasts, and openly talked about which ones he d like to sleep with.
He also wanted them to bare more cleavage and wear shorter skirts, and asked one woman to twirl for him so he could ogle her figure.As a woman who, at a previous job, was repeatedly asked to twirl around so a manager could ogle my figure before he d even answer a question I had, these revelations make me positively ill.Trump even compared a camerawoman s looks to the beauty of Ivanka on the set of The Apprentice.
Ivanka hasn t had a very good role model for a father, let alone for anything to do with feminism and women s rights.
Trump always saw his parental duties as limited to providing funds for his children.
He never actually parented, and he s said both of the following to boot: I mean, I won t do anything to take care of them.
I ll supply funds and she ll take care of the kids.
It s not like I m gonna be walking the kids down Central Park.
Marla used to say, I can t believe you re not walking Tiffany down the street, you know in a carriage.
Right, I m gonna be walking down Fifth Avenue with a baby in a carriage.
It just didn t work.
And: There s a lot of women out there that demand that the husband act like the wife and you know there s a lot of husbands that listen to that I m really like a great father but certain things you do and certain things you don t. It s just not for me.
This is understanding the needs of working mothers, women, and the modern workforce?
Not hardly.Ivanka is in awe of her father, it seems, and carries a ton of internalized misogyny because of him and because of society.
She s ill-equipped to reach out to women on this level on behalf of her father, because that takes a lot more than simply being a female face.Watch the entire ad below:Featured image via screen capture from embedded video