On Sunday, the nation learned that former first lady Nancy Reagan, 94, had passed away at her Los Angeles home from congestive heart failure.
Nancy was the wife of Republican hero Ronald Reagan and after his death in 2004, she became an outspoken activist for a cure Alzheimer s disease and huge beacon of support for families whose loved ones suffered from the degenerative illness.
While Republican presidential candidates have expressed grief over her passing, her longtime friend, Larry King, said he is relieved that she will not be here to see the end of the GOP s disgusting presidential race.During an interview with CNN s Wolf Blitzer, King said: I ll miss her.
I love socializing with her, I love gossiping with her, I love talking with her.
If there s one thing glad about this, he added.
She isn t around to see the end of this political year.
Because she was very upset by it.
We can understand why she would be upset.
The candidates running for the Republican nomination have constantly tried to equate themselves with her husband.
Even though a number of his children have spoken out and said that Reagan would be appalled by the comparisons.While these candidates, like Ted Cruz and (shudder) Donald Trump, name drop the former president during every GOP debate, they behave like schoolyard bullies and pledge to never compromise with Democrats.
Reagan may have had faults (A LOT of them) but he knew how to compromise and he never, ever behaved the way the current Republican Party does.As a matter of fact, if Ronald Reagan was a candidate in this race, the others running would probably call him a RINO and a traitor.
And they damn sure wouldn t support any amnesty plan for undocumented immigrants (like the one he is well-known for).The current GOP is so gross that when news of Nancy s passing spread, their voters took it as on opportunity to attack the current first lady, Michelle Obama.With all of this, is it really any wonder she was upset?Watch:https://youtu.be/TZUVIbWbT2w Featured image via video screenshot