Donald Trump supporter Kayleigh McEnany was taken to the woodshed on Thursday by CNN s Jake Tapper.CNN has been asking Trump surrogates why they are portraying women accusing the Republican nominee of sexual assault as liars but are so adamant that Bill Clinton s accusers are telling the truth.Jeffrey Lord stammered and did a death spiral when Anderson Cooper questioned that hypocrisy earlier in the day.
So CNN host Jake Tapper posed the same question to McEnany and she crashed and burned.McEnany began by declaring that every woman who makes a sexual assault allegation should be heard, only to then attack Trump s accusers.
There are a lot of reasons, the facts that lead us to question these accusations, she said.
She went on to question the New York Times story by claiming that the same authors of that story published a story in May in which their source recanted and she questioned them because they allegedly never filed a police report against Trump.That s when Tapper hammered McEnany by pointing out her hypocrisy and the fact that Clinton accuser Juanita Broaddrick signed an affidavit denying that she was raped by the former president and reminded her that another of Clinton s accusers did not report their allegations to police before making a public accusation.In other words, the Trump campaign has a double standard when it comes to sexual assault accusations.
Kayleigh, I have to say, because we had a conversation on Sunday during the debate after Mr. Trump brought out the three women who have accused Bill Clinton, two of them of sexual assault and one of them of rape.
And you didn t go into detail questioning their accounts.
One of them signed an affidavit saying that there had not been any nonconsensual sex and then recanted it.
You didn t have a problem with that inconsistency.
One of them didn t report the alleged incidents to police.
You didn t have an incident that.
My question is why do you have a different standard for Mr. Trump s accusers than you do for Mr. Clinton s accusers?
Tapper later went on to correct McEnany that sexual assault is not sex after she said she isn t here to litigate Donald Trump s sexual past.Here s the video via YouTube.This is the question every Trump supporter should be asked.
Because Trump and his campaign are insisting that Bill Clinton s accusers are telling the truth while demonizing women who come forward with sexual assault accusations against Trump.
If they truly believe every woman should be heard, then they have to admit that Trump s accusers could be telling the truth, too.Also, Bill Clinton is NOT running for president.
Donald Trump, however, IS.Featured Image: Screenshot