Everyone knows actress Kristin Davis from her role as Charlotte on HBO s smash hit Sex and the City.
However, that show ended airing over a decade ago, and Davis has gone on to do amazing things in her life and career, including with the United Nations to address the refugee crisis.
She s also dedicated a lot of her life to working in Africa with and their wildlife conservation.So, when Davis appeared on the Australian morning show Sunrise to discuss the ongoing refugee crisis, she was met with hosts extremely eager to do a Sex and the City sketch instead.
An absolutely cringeworthy sketch that Davis seemed to woefully agree to do, despite the reason she was there in the first place.
Just take one look at her Twitter timeline and you will see what an extraordinary woman Davis is, and quite honestly, shouldn t have been treated this way.Without further ado, here s the skit:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkHHeRAuEl0It s not clear whether she was live tweeting from the show, but Davis tweeted this out:@sueconwayc Thank you so much.
Hopefully someone will let me talk about @Refugees Kristin Davis (@KristinDavis) February 10, 2016This was after the show tweeted out that Davis said sarcastically, This is a first.
I have NEVER done this Thankfully, they finally let her talk about her amazing work with the refugees:UNHCR Ambassador @KristinDavis talks about her incredible work with @Refugees #sun7 https://t.co/JoKJ3TRAUU Sunrise (@sunriseon7) February 11, 2016Several Aussies apologized that they are not all that disrespectful to those in their nation dedicated to such extraordinary work.
@KristinDavis So sorry you had to put up with that rubbish.
Please don't think that the rest of us in Aus are all like that X Tammy Gamble (@tammygamble) February 10, 2016And Davis, being the kind person that she is, acknowledged that fact:@tammygamble I don't think that!
Kristin Davis (@KristinDavis) February 10, 2016@KristinDavis I'm so glad!
Just know that the vast majority of us truly care about the message you're trying to spread xo Tammy Gamble (@tammygamble) February 10, 2016All in all, she was still able to share her very important message, but my god, producers of Sunrise in Australia, please don t ever allow that to happen again.Video/Featured image from YouTube