Rudy Giuliani just committed the greatest sin one could in this country by pretending that the worst terrorist attack on American soil never happened.
And the New York Daily News ripped him a new one for it.During a rally for Donald Trump on Monday, the former New York City mayor who has constantly reminded us that he was the mayor on September 11, 2001 stopped reminding and began forgetting in order to attack President Obama.Giuliani appallingly claimed that it was only after President Obama took office that terrorists started to successful pull off attacks in the United States.
Under those eight years, before Obama came along, we didn t have any successful radical Islamic terrorist attack inside the United States, Giuliani declared.But President Obama took office in 2009, eight years after al-Qaeda operatives hijacked two airplanes and crashed them into both towers of the World Trade Center.
Both would later fall as the nation watched in horror.
Nearly 3,000 people lost their lives that day, and Republicans have never missed a chance to invoke the travesty for political gain.But Giuliani did just that on behalf of the Republican nominee and he drew the ire of the New York Daily News, who brutally reminded him of the big mistake he made.Giuliani s face appears on the cover of the New York Daily News on Tuesday along with an image of the World Trade Center after a plane had just exploded into it.
Rudy s most pathetic politicizing of 9/11 yet, the headline declares.
In sick pitch for Trump, ex-Mayor despicably forgets.
Here s the cover via Twitter.Today s front page: RUDY S MOST PATHETIC POLITICIZING OF 9/11 YET: ex-mayor forgets https://t.co/z5ZofQT217 pic.twitter.com/05Hq5ZurOy New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) August 16, 2016Indeed, it is pathetic and despicable.
It s also a desperation play as Trump continues to fall in the polls against Hillary Clinton.Conservatives are desperately trying to convince Americans that President Obama is weak on national security, but the fact of the matter is that ISIS would not exist if President Bush had not invaded Iraq in 2003.That unnecessary war gave rise to more terrorists and has only caused us grief in the Middle East and here at home.
But rather than take responsibility for their own screw-ups, Republicans would rather blame President Obama for everything instead.
And the American electorate should punish the GOP thoroughly for it on Election Day.Featured image via screen capture