The New York Times gave the accused sexual predator, Ben Affleck s new movie a thumbs up, but neglects to mention the sexual predator allaegations against him.Immediately after the Weinstein accusations started to come out, actress Hilarie Burton accused Ben Affleck of sexually assaulting her during a filming.
Shanice Brim told Burton how sorry she was that Affleck sexually assaulted her, saying, It s infuriating that people never bring up all the gross, predatory things he s done.
He also grabbed Hilarie Burton's breasts on TRL once.
Everyone forgot though.
Shanice Brim (@ShaniceBrim) October 10, 2017Actress Hilarie Burton responded, I didn t forget.
I m so sorry that happened to you.
It s infuriating that people never bring up all the gross, predatory things he s done.
Shanice Brim (@ShaniceBrim) October 11, 2017Here s a video of Ben Affleck where he allegedly grabbed the actress breasts:https://t.co/wh2MpJVQzlGirls.
I'm so impressed with you brave ones.
I had to laugh back then so I wouldn't cry.
Sending love.
Hilarie Burton (@HilarieBurton) October 11, 2017Ben Affleck was also accused by one of Harvey Weinstein s victims of covering up sexual assault, after he made a comment about how saddened and angry he was at his bestie Harvey Weinstein for his actions:You want to play let's play #ROSEARMY pic.twitter.com/uqd26Z78gc rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) October 10, 2017Here s the Justice League star in another disgusting video where he s clearly objectifying the female reporter:[VIDEO] Ben Affleck objectifies female reporter, comments on her breasts, then makes fun of "retarded" people with cerebral palsy.
#cringe pic.twitter.com/5OiBtYkkVB Austen Fletcher (@fleccas) October 12, 2017To add insult to injury, only days ago, Affleck appeared on MTV, where he gave a cringeworthy, and very arrogant interview about the new Justice League movie, along with his co-stars.
The Mercury News published a story following his interview where they asked, Does Ben Affleck really want to stop people from writing him off as an arrogant male movie star who lacks the character or good sense to move past his difficult associations with sexual harassment?
Does he really want people to believe he can be part of the solution to ending a Hollywood culture that long allowed rich and powerful men like Harvey Weinstein to sexually mistreat women?Does he at least want to save his new movie Justice League from more bad press, after critics gave it generally negative reviews?Then Affleck better shut up, especially after his latest cringe-worthy comments surfaced.For an MTV Justice League cast interview last week, the Batman actor jauntily chomped his way through a big wad a gum while cracking a couple jokes that appeared to reference the sexual misconduct engulfing his industry, the Huffington Post reported.
We could use more women!
Affleck said, perhaps trying to sound like he wanted to correct Hollywood s notorious gender disparity in movie narratives.But when his co-star Ray Fisher, who plays Cyborg in the film, was asked what would happen if Supergirl teamed up with the Justice League, the younger actor said in a very PR-friendly way, I think it would create a different dynamic.
That s when Affleck, failing to read the room or to grasp his own lack of charm in this situation, blurted out.
You following the news at all?
He broke into a smile, chomping his gum some more, apparently thinking he was being very clever in referencing the sexual misconduct crisis that has engulfed his industry.Here s the arrogant and NOT funny interview: pic.twitter.com/o3bMi4WWQ5 (@stormpiIott) November 13, 2017Even the hard-core leftist publication Slate, gives their readers a list of movies they beleive will be affected by the Weinstein scandal and those who were close to the accused rapist, who are also facing sexual misconduct charges.
The New York Times, however, has chosen to ignore Affleck s bad behavior in their review, however.
We re pretty sure that given their history of bashing conservatives, if Affleck wasn t a mega-Democrat donor, his name would ve been the focus of the New York Times headline From Slate Justice League (debut- November 17) The Justice League press tour was going to be plenty difficult even before the Weinstein scandal went wide: As the movie underwent a director switch and major reshoots, rumors flew that Warner Bros. might be looking to bump an erratic Ben Affleck from his perch as Batman.
Now, Affleck has been implicated in the Weinstein scandal by actress Rose McGowan, who claims the actor knew that Weinstein had assaulted her two decades ago, even though his recent statement on the matter pled na vet .
McGowan s tweet Ben Affleck fuck off went viral and prompted renewed scrutiny of the actor s own behavior; Affleck has since apologized to actress Hilarie Burton for groping her during a long-ago TRL appearance.NYT s Justice League, the newest DC Comics superhero jam directed by Zack Snyder, is looser, goosier and certainly more watchable than the last one.
The bar could scarcely have been lower given that the previous movie, Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, was such an interminable slog.
The superhero and villain dynamic is much the same (slayers going to slay, etc.
), but there are a few fresh faces now and Wonder Woman has more to do than play backup.
The story is a confusion of noise, visual clutter and murderous digital gnats, but every so often a glimmer of life flickers through.The last time he fronted a movie, Superman (Henry Cavill) seemed to die, a plot twist that not even the most credulous viewer could buy.
So, of course he s back in this one, eventually, although first the band needs to get together.
Having seen trouble on the horizon, Batman, a.k.a.
Bruce Wayne played with a sepulchral growl and bespoke stubble by Ben Affleck takes the lead on this enterprise.
He s the insistent manager as well as the scowling host, the guy with the cool digs, smooth rides with blinking screens ( critical damage reads one with great comic-book sincerity) and suave butler (Jeremy Irons as Alfred).
He s also pretty much of a yawn.The pumped-up Mr. Affleck again fills out the bat suit from ripped stem to stern, but his costume remains grievously larger than Batman s (or Bruce s) personality.
Bat-Bruce clearly has some kind of unrequited thing for Wonder Woman, a.k.a.
Diana Prince (Gal Gadot, a charming super-presence), which leads him to stammer like a teenager.
(She s got other things on her mind.)
He has money and a modest sense of humor, including about his wealth, which inspires one of the movie s few decent laughs.
Mr. Affleck, a generally appealing actor who can plumb the depths when pushed ( Gone Girl ), needs something more substantial (or just more jokes) if his Batman is ever going to work.Cyborg isn t as buoyant a presence, which makes sense for a character who s been partly cobbled together from scraps and a sob story that Mr. Fisher puts across with bowed head and palpable heaviness.
The hoodie he sometimes wears, which can t help but evoke Trayvon Martin, imparts a larger meaning that the movie doesn t or can t explore.
Like the references to a coming world catastrophe that suggestively shudders with wider implications, the hoodie suggests filmmakers who are still struggling to keep an eye on the offscreen world while spinning a fictional universe that can somehow offer a brief escape from it.