Eric Bolling tweeted out a heartfelt statement about the unexpected death of his only child, 19-year old Eric Chase Bolling only one day after he was fired from his position as a wildly popular host on FOX News.
The Murdoch s appear to be cleansing the network of any passionate and outspoken Trump supporters.
The allegations of sexual misconduct surfaced after a Huffington Post reporter Yahsar Ali interviewed women who said he sent them inappropriate texts that contained sexual content.Eric Bolling, like Fox News host Sean Hannity, decided to fight back, and not take what he calls false allegations sitting down.
Sean Hannity was a target of washed up blogger and lawyer Debbie Schlussel until he hired a team of lawyers who threatened to sue her.
Like magic, the false allegations went away.Eric Bolling tweeted about his decision to fight the allegations by suing the author of the story on August 9, 2017:I will continue to fight against these false smear attacks!
THANK YOU FOR CONTINUED SUPPORT Eric Bolling (@ericbolling) August 9, 2017Huffington Post writer Yashar Ali responded:Just received a summons.
Eric Bolling is suing me for defamation $50 million in damages.
I stand by my reporting + will protect my sources Yashar Ali (@yashar) August 9, 2017On September 8, the increasingly left-leaning FOX News network announced the firing of the wildly popular FoX News host, Eric Bolling, based on ALLEGATIONS that were levied against him by Caroline Heldman (pictured in photo below, second from right in a pussy hat) a serial sexual misconduct accuser, who once held a sign at a Trump protest accusing him of being a rapist.
Many brought up #pizzagate in response to my "good people don't vote for rapists" sign at Trump's inauguration.
https://t.co/lTDtBEhhgh pic.twitter.com/T2S8UfIF5O Caroline Heldman (@carolineheldman) June 22, 2017Bolling was hoping he would not go the way of the network s most popular conservative Bill O Reilly, who has since mocked the Murdoch s for their decision to can him.
The Murdoch brothers also fired Roger Ailes, the then-head of Fox News Channel, for sexual harassment.
Roger Ailes died shortly after his firing, many believed the firing took a huge toll on his health.
It appears as though the Murdoch brothers have no intention slowing down on the firing of their most popular conservative hosts, regardless of the consequences.On September 9, Eric Bolling and his wife Adrienne lost their only son, 19-yr. old Eric Chase Bolling.
The details of his death are still unknown, but rumors have been circulating that he took his own life after watching his father being smeared in the hate-filled, anti-Trump mainstream media.
It wasn t enough that Fox News fired Bolling, or that he is suffering the unimaginable loss of his only son, the hate-filled alt-left liberals wanted him to suffer even more, as they took to Twitter to let Bolling know he deserved it.Bolling tweeted about the death of his son on September 9, making it clear that the details of his death were still unclear .
Here are some of the vile and hate-filled comments that leftists posted under his request for prayers: Sad news about your son, BUT karma is a hot bitch when she visits.Think about what you've done and the affect it has on others.
#repent Anthony (@Amgiv) September 9, 2017KARMA IS A BITCH !!!
RACISM HOMOPHOBIC ECT WILL COME BACK TO GET YOU FIRST YIUR JOB THEN YOUR SON YOU SHOULD REALLY CHANGE YOUR LIFE Samuel Defreese (@SamuelDefreese2) September 10, 2017Clearly sins of the father come to visit the son.
The man was a dick pic sending creep.
And Karma just hit him twice.
Good riddance, lol pic.twitter.com/fr3aMLlfPh White Jesus (@paleface_savage) September 9, 2017Eric Bolling lost his 19-year-old son and the response from these cretins?
"karma" and "got what he deserved"It's truly disgusting.
pic.twitter.com/BtT3Ci0eO5 Chet Cannon (@Chet_Cannon) September 9, 2017