Just remember that white supremacists support Donald Trump and the Republican Party.Because if they take power in November, racists like this guy will think they have free license to kill black people at will.Earlier this month, Russell Courtier and his girlfriend Colleen Hunt stopped at a convenience store near Portland, Oregon and started a fight with 19-year-old Larnell Bruce, a young black man.Courtier has repeatedly run afoul of the law, but keeps being let out of his cage.
While in prison, he became the leader of the European Kindred, a white supremacist group.
Courtier had just been paroled for attacking a woman with a knife in 2013.Anyway, Courtier slammed Bruce s head into the glass window as Hunt cheered.
To defend himself, Bruce pulled a knife and Courtier retreated to his Jeep.
The fight should have ended there, but Courtier wanted blood, so he violated a series of traffic laws in an effort to run Bruce over.By the time police arrived it was too late.
Bruce was severely injured and Courtier and his girlfriend had fled the scene.
Bruce died days later at the hospital due to the severity of his injuries.Both Courtier and Hunt were later arrested and now they have been indicted for murder and will likely face charges for committing a hate crime.Frankly, this is one of those cases where law enforcement and our judicial system failed the public simply because Courtier is white.
He has four felony convictions and seven misdemeanors on his record, yet he was still unleashed upon society.
On the flip side, African-Americans are being shot by police in the streets for doing nothing criminal whatsoever.
If Courtier were black, he d either be dead before he ever saw the inside of a courtroom or he would be imprisoned for life without the possibility of parole.
He certainly would not have received as many chances for freedom as he has squandered.But Courtier is white, and now the Oregon judiciary has blood on their hands.What may be even scarier is the fact that white supremacists like Courtier are big fans of Donald Trump because they believe he ll make America white again and bring their racist cause into the mainstream.These are people who cheer for the killing of black people and are just waiting for the day when they can do so with impunity.If you want a glimpse of what Donald Trump s America would look like, the murder of Larnell Bruce by a white supremacist in the middle of an open street should tell you everything you need to know.Featured image via Multnomah County Sheriff s Office