Kellyanne Conway s decision to provide Ivanka Trump s crappy products with a free commercial during an appearance on Fox News has already claimed its first casualty: pretty much every major system at the Office of Government Ethics.The Hill reports that the office s website was down for several hours Thursday following Conway s interesting and unethical mix of her boss s daughter s business interests and her own official capacity as propaganda minister.
It s a wonderful line.
I own some of it, Conway said of Ivanka s various overpriced products during an appearance on Fox News Thursday.
I fully I m going to give a free commercial here.
Go buy it today, everybody.
You can find it online.
The ethics office tweeted that website, phone system and email system are receiving an extraordinary volume of contacts from citizens about recent events.
1/OGE s website, phone system and email system are receiving an extraordinary volume of contacts from citizens about recent events.
U.S. OGE (@OfficeGovEthics) February 9, 20172/OGE works to prevent ethics violations.
OGE does not have investigative or enforcement authority.
U.S. OGE (@OfficeGovEthics) February 9, 20173/Congress, GAO, the FBI, Inspectors General, and the Office of Special Counsel have the authority to conduct investigations.
U.S. OGE (@OfficeGovEthics) February 9, 20174/ When OGE learns of possible ethics violations, OGE contacts the agency, provides guidance & asks them to notify OGE of any action taken.
U.S. OGE (@OfficeGovEthics) February 9, 20175/OGE is actively following this agency-contact process.
U.S. OGE (@OfficeGovEthics) February 9, 2017The White House has taken an extraordinary interest in promoting Ivanka Trump s clothes and jewelry for some reason.
Recently, the sitting President of the United States hate-tweeted a high-end retailer after they dropped his precious little girl s crappy products because they weren t selling.My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom.
She is a great person always pushing me to do the right thing!
Terrible!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017 This is a direct attack on his policies and her name, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said of the company s decision to drop a product line they deemed unworthy to be on the shelves.While Ivanka feigns surprise, Nordstrom says they informed her last month her products would be dropped.
We made this decision based on performance, a Nordstrom spokesperson told NBC News.
Over the past year, and particularly in the last half of 2016, sales of the brand have steadily declined to the point where it didn t make good business sense for us to continue with the line for now.
We ve had a great relationship with the Ivanka Trump team, the spokesperson added.
We ve had open conversations with them over the past year to share what we ve seen and Ivanka was personally informed of our decision in early January.
Nordstrom isn t the only retailer to drop Ivanka Trump.
Neiman Marcus has stopped selling her jewelry on their website and TJ Maxx instructed employees to throw Ivanka s signage in the trash where they belong and hide whatever product they have in the normal sales racks.Read more:Featured image via Getty Images (Mark Wilson)/screengrab