Almost incessantly, conservatives remind us that President Obama is weak.
It s certainly not true, but we hear it constantly as the Right attempts to diminish each and every one of his accomplishments, no matter how small or large.
One particular target area is the war on ISIS which is going quite well.
In December, the President promised we will destroy ISIS and since then, we have seen him make good on his word.
In fact, the following month.In December, the President promised we will destroy ISIS and since then, we have seen him make good on his word.
In fact, the following month, the United States bombed a building full of the terrorist organization s money a move that probably did more damage than a direct strike on the extremist group s soldiers destroying millions of the already cash-strapped terrorists dollars in the process.
In addition, Daesh has been rapidly losing territory, which means a drastic reduction in tax revenue.By February, ISIS was forced to slash salaries by half, do away with bonuses, and eliminate other perks (no more free Snickers bars and energy drinks, terrorists!).
Now, things are so desperate that the terrorist group is literally killing its own people so that it can sell their organs.
Taking things a bit further than their earlier order to harvest non-Muslims organs for transplant, the Arabic-language al-Sabah newspaper reports that ISIS has now begun harvesting injured fighters organs to be sold on the black market.
Doctors were threatened to take out the body organs of a wounded ISIL militant, the report said.
Iranian news agency FARS confirms the information: The terrorists are suffering a budget shortage after their recent loss of territory in the southern part of Mosul and for the same reason it is reportedly killing its own militants who have been injured in southern Mosul to take out their body organs such as hearts and kidneys to sell them in the black market.
In addition, rather than kill prisoners for YouTube propaganda, ISIS is now keeping them alive to harvest blood for transfusions.Things are bad for ISIS.
In April, the AFP reported that ISIS monthly income has fallen to critical levels: In mid-2015, the Islamic State s overall monthly revenue was around $80 million (71 million euros), said Ludovico Carlino, senior analyst at IHS, which issues regular reports on IS-controlled territory.
As of March 2016, the Islamic State s monthly revenue dropped to $56 million, Carlino said.An IHS report also said oil production in areas controlled by IS jihadists had gone down to 21,000 barrels per day from 33,000 barrels per day before.This was due largely to air strikes by the US-led coalition and Russia, although IHS warned the decline was only an interruption of production as jihadists were able to repair infrastructure quickly.There s something strangely satisfying about watching ISIS in its death throes.
While it is widely acknowledged that the United States, under Obama s leadership, played a large role in the terrorist organization s fall, you will never see Republicans acknowledge this.
After all, why sacrifice a good talking point over a little thing like the facts.
Just for fun, here s a video of the airstrike that destroyed ISIS cash stockpile:Featured image via Getty Images/Pool