The Swedes have apparently reached their limit on tolerance for Muslim refugees who have no intention of assimilating.
Since 1975, rapes in Sweden have increased by 1,475%!
You have to understand that Swedes are really scared when an asylum house opens in their village.
They can see what has happened in other places.
Salesman for alarm systems.Since Parliament decided in 1975 that Sweden should be multicultural and not Swedish, crime has exploded.
Violent crime has increased by over 300% and rapes have increased by an unbelievable 1,472%.Many Swedes see the mass immigration as a forced marriage: Sweden is forced to marry a man she did not choose, yet she is expected to love and honor him, even though he beats her and treats her badly.
Her parents (the government) tell her to be warm and show solidarity with him.
Are the State and I now in agreement that our mutual contract is being renegotiated?
Alexandra von Schwerin, whose farm who was robbed three times.
Police refused to help.Once upon a time, there was a safe welfare state called Sweden, where people rarely locked their doors.Now, this country is a night-watchman state each man is on his own.
When the Minister of Justice, Morgan Johansson, encourages breaking the law, it means opening the gates to anarchy.
Mr. and Mrs. Swede have every reason to be worried, with the influx of 190,000 unskilled and unemployed migrants expected this year equivalent to 2% of Sweden s current population.
The number is as if 6.4 million penniless migrants who did not speak English arrived in U.S. in one year, or 1.3 million in Britain.And the Swedes are preparing: demand for firearms licenses is increasing; more and more Swedes are joining shooting clubs and starting vigilante groups.
After a slight dip in 2014, the number of new gun permits has gone up significantly again this year.
According to police statistics, there are 1,901,325 licensed guns, owned by 567,733 people, in Sweden.
Add to this an unknown number of illegal weapons.
To get a gun permit in Sweden, you need to be at least 18 years old; law-abiding; well-behaved, and have a hunting license or be a member of an approved shooting club.
In 2014, 11,000 people got a hunting license: 10% more than the year before.
One out of five was a woman.
There is also a high demand for alarm systems right now, says a salesman at one of the security companies in an interview with Gatestone.
It is largely due to the turbulence we are seeing around the country at the moment.
People have lost confidence in the State, he added.
The police will not come anymore.
Truck drivers say that when they see a thief emptying the fuel tank of their trucks, they run out with a baseball bat.
It is no use calling the police, but if you hit the thief, you can at least prevent him from stealing more diesel.
Many homeowners say the same thing: they sleep with a baseball bat under the bed.
But this is risky: the police can then say you have been prepared to use force, and that might backfire on you.
The salesman, who asked to remain anonymous, also spoke of Sweden s many Facebook groups, in which people in different villages openly discuss how they intend to protect themselves: Sometimes you get totally freaked out when you see what they are writing.
But you have to understand that Swedes are really scared when an asylum house opens in their village.
They can see what has happened in other places.
One blog, detailing the consequences for the local population when an asylum facility opens, is aptly named Asylkaos ( Asylum Chaos ).
There is a list of companies the reader is prompted to boycott; the blog claims these businesses encourage the transformation of Sweden to a multicultural society, and are therefore considered hostile to Swedes.
At another security company, a salesman said that every time the Immigration Service buys or rents a new housing facility, his firm is swamped with calls.
The next day, he said, half the village calls and wants to buy alarm systems.
Ronny Fredriksson, spokesman of the security company Securitas, said that the demand for home alarm systems first exploded about six years ago, when many local police stations were shut down and police moved to the main towns.
This, he said, could result in response times of several hours.
More and more people now employ the services of our security guards.
Shopping malls and stores in the city come together and hire guards.
We are kind of like the local beat cops of old.
Even though Securitas makes big money from the increased need for home security alarms and security guards, Fredriksson says they also are worried about the effect on society: The problem is that we too need the police.
When our guards catch a burglar or a violent person, we call the police but the response times are often very long.
Sometimes, the detainees get violent and quite rowdy.
On occasion, the police have told us to release the person we have apprehended, if we have his identity, because they do not have a patrol nearby.
Even before the massive influx of migrants in the fall of 2015, Swedes felt a need to protect themselves and with good reason.
Since the Parliament decided in 1975 that Sweden should be multicultural and not Swedish, crime has exploded.
Violent crime has increased by more than 300%, and rapes have increased by an unbelievable 1,472%.The politicians, however, ignore the people s fear completely.
It is never discussed.
Instead, the people who express concern about what kind of country Sweden has become are accused of xenophobia and racism.
Most likely, that is the reason more and more people are taking matters into their own hands, and protecting themselves and their families to the best of their ability.All the same, some people do not settle for that.
It seems some people are trying to stop mass immigration to Sweden.
Almost every day there are reports of fires being set at asylum houses.
So far, miraculously, no one has been hurt.
These fires are set not only by Swedes.
On October 13, a 36-year-old woman living in Skellefte was convicted of setting fire to the asylum facility in which she herself resided.
The woman claimed she lit a candle and then fell asleep.
Yet forensic evidence showed that a combustible fluid had been doused throughout the room, and the court found beyond a reasonable doubt that she herself had ignited the fire.
Via: Gatestone Institute