On Friday, during a segment of Real Time with Bill Maher, the comedic host utterly destroyed Donald Trump s latest round of lies.
The most notable example of Trump s no f#cks given, blatant lying relates to unemployment.
Trump has stated multiple times that he has heard that the unemployment rate is really somewhere around 40 percent.
Trump s continued use of the bogus talking point, has recently garnered new attention.Politifact gave Trump a Pants on Fire rating when he made the claim during a televised press conference back in September.
It is just one among his total of the 18 Pants on Fire ratings that Trump has received from them.
During the press conference, Trump said: The number isn t reflective.
I ve seen numbers of 24 percent I actually saw a number of 42 percent unemployment.
Forty-two percent.
5.3 percent unemployment that is the biggest joke there is in this country.
The unemployment rate is probably 20 percent, but I will tell you, you have some great economists that will tell you it s a 30, 32.
And the highest I ve heard so far is 42 percent.
Maher marveled at how ridiculous the claim is.
Maher pondered what exactly an America with a 40% unemployment would look like.
He mentions the horrific realities of the life during the Great Depression.
During that dark time in the United States economic history, the unemployment rate was at its highest was 25 percent.
Almost half of Trump s claim.
Maher asks: Do you have any idea what America would look like with 40 percent unemployment?
In the Great Depression, people were jumping out of windows and selling apples on the street.
Maher laid part of the blame for Trump and other Republican s ability to get away with making such bold and obvious lies, with the media.
He points out the lack of outrage in the media over the Supreme Court s decision earlier this week to block most of President Obama s new carbon emission rules, as an example.You can watch the segment below, in full.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uXVhR5rC7rg Featured image from video screenshot via YouTube