Donald Trump recently said that grading his first 100 days is a ridiculous standard, but as Jake Tapper points out, Trump set the standard himself during the campaign.When Mitt Romney ran for president in 2012, he quickly made a name for himself as a serial flip-flopper.
Well, Donald Trump is flip-flopping even more.Throughout the 2016 campaign, Trump made a lot of promises about what he would get done during his first 100 days, even going so far as to present a 100 days action plan listing what Americans could expect him to accomplish during that period.But now that his first 100 days winding down, Trump realized that he is a total failure and quickly posted a tweet designed to make it sound like the first 100 days standard is no big deal.No matter how much I accomplish during the ridiculous standard of the first 100 days, & it has been a lot (including S.C.), media will kill!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2017Trump has even released a list of his so-called historic accomplishments to make it appear like he has done great things since taking over the White House.Jake Tapper was not impressed and it only took him four minutes to take Trump down on Monday night.The CNN host began informing Trump of his record low approval ratings and pointed out that not a single major piece of legislation has been signed despite Republicans controlling Congress.
With historically low approval ratings and zero pieces of major legislation signed into law, President Trump has had an empirically disappointing first 100 days.
Perhaps that s the reason he recently tweeted about the ridiculous standard of the first 100 days.
Indeed, Trump often brags about himself and whines about the media when they tell the truth about him.Tapper then demonstrated Trump s hypocrisy by showing clips of him repeatedly bragging about how much he would get done in the first 100 days.
In other words, Trump held himself to the standard that he now claims is ridiculous.
He changed his tune on this marker this very conceit that he promoted with his 100-day action plan, Tapper continued.
Which is not really a surprise, because President Trump often heralds his flexibility.
Tapper went on to hit Trump for flip-flopping on all of his positions during the campaign, like when he said that NATO is obsolete, only to turn around and admit that NATO is not obsolete after coming face to face with NATO officials.
Then there was the time Trump dismissed the unemployment rate as phony, which was under 5 percent during the campaign, only to brag about the same numbers when the first jobs reports came out under his presidency.Then there s healthcare, which Trump bragged would be easy to deal with during the campaign.
He promised Americans would get cheap healthcare.
Now, he admits it s complicated after failing to repeal the popular Affordable Care Act.Trump also failed to cripple a Syrian air base he ordered bombed.
Botched a raid in Yemen that left a soldier, an American girl, and many civilians dead.
His two immigration bans have been blocked by the courts, and a government shutdown looms because Trump refuses to budge on funding his useless border wall.In the end, Tapper also hit Trump for complaining about executive orders during the campaign, only to sign 25 within his first 100 days, more than any president since World War II.
In fact, Trump is on pace to sign more executive orders than President Obama.
Trump is also on pace to take more vacations days, spend more taxpayer dollars on those vacation days, and play more rounds of golf.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is a loser.
That s the one word that best sums up Trump and his disastrously embarrassing first three months in office.Featured Image: Screenshot