We are stuck with Donald Trump as the most dangerous and incompetent president in history for either the next four years or until he is impeached.
If he is impeached, we re stuck with a bona fide theocrat in Mike Pence.
It didn t have to be this way, though, and we quite possibly have one man to thank for it: Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey.By now, we are all aware that the insane probe into Hillary Clinton s private email server was closed in July.
Despite much GOP hand-wringing, it was found that there was nothing to see there.
However, despite his decision not to pursue criminal charges, Comey took an unprecedented step and held a press conference telling the American people that Hillary was reckless in her actions in a scathing rebuke that, of course, would turn voters who were on the fence against her.
In addition to that, just eleven days out from Election Day, Comey sent a letter to Congress, which of course made it into the press, saying that he may be re-opening the probe due to some nonsense about Hillary s aide, Huma Abedin, and her husband Anthony Weiner s computer in a completely unrelated investigation.
Of course, nothing was there, but the damage was already done.
This could very well be what tipped the election in favor of Donald Trump in the minds of undecided voters.
After all, plenty of people made up their minds at the last minute.One attorney is, quote, appalled at Comey s actions.
After filing a Freedom of Information Act request to have the warrant for Hillary s emails released, Randy Schoenberg of Los Angeles, California, says of what the FBI Director did, via USA Today: I see nothing at all in the search warrant application that would give rise to probable cause, nothing that would make anyone suspect that there was anything on the laptop beyond what the FBI had already searched and determined not to be evidence of a crime, nothing to suggest that there would be anything other than routine correspondence between Clinton and Abedin, Schoenberg said in an email to USA TODAY.
It remains unknown why they thought they might find evidence of a crime, why they felt it necessary to inform Congress, and why they even sought this search warrant, he said.
I am appalled.
The FBI s Manhattan office did not immediately return a call seeking comment.Brian Fallon, who of course was a Clinton campaign official, echoed these sentiments via Twitter, saying that unsealed filings regarding Huma s emails reveals Comey s intrusion on the election was as utterly unjustified as we suspected at time.
So, in other words, it is very possible that Comey did this in an effort to tip the scales in Trump s favor.
Then again, considering that there was an entire article written during the campaign saying that the FBI is Trumpland, this really should be no surprise whatsoever.
If they wanted to tilt things to Trump, they had the perfect way to do it, especially considering all of the horrible news coming out about Trump.These revelations are especially damning, considering that it has now been revealed that the FBI withheld information regarding an investigation into Trump and his campaign s ties to Russia.
To that end, Comey definitely messed with our democracy in what is beginning to look like a criminal act.
They hated Hillary so much at the FBI that the director himself manipulated the electoral process to give us a Trump presidency.James Comey needs to be investigated himself, but of course that isn t going to happen under a GOP White House, Department of Justice, and Congress.Shame on you, Director Comey.
Representative Maxine Waters was right you have no credibility, and should resign immediately.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images