Chuck Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, hinted at the possibility of laying obstruction of justice charges down against Donald Trump in a conversation with CNN s Manu Raju yesterday.Raju relayed a message to Grassley from Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat out of California, in the Senate s hallways.
According to Raju, Feinstein says that she wants the Judiciary Committee to investigate potential obstruction of justice.
Raju was referring to a letter Feinstein wrote to Grassley on Friday in which she begged the committee to investigate all issues that raise a question of obstruction of justice.
These issues should be developed by our legal staff, presented to us, and be subject to full Committee hearings.
Grassley s response was one that we all wanted to hear.
Let me give you a process answer because this is where we are, Grassley replied to Raju.
Sen. Feinstein wanted to talk to me by phone today.
I sent word back that I d like to have her and I sit down face-to-face and we ll work out all of the subpoenas and all the stuff we have to do in the future and work out a whole program.
Raju pressed for more details, asking, Are you okay, though, looking into the potential of obstruction of justice?
Is that something for your committee?
We re going to leave that to a conversation with Feinstein, was Grassley s answer.Dianne Feinstein s letter to Grassley mainly focussed on fired Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, who, on January 26 and 27, warned White House counsel that then-National Security Advisor Michael Flynn had lied about his contact with the Russian Ambassador, leading to Flynn s forced resignation.
She also mentioned that, if necessary, the committee could subpoena Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and National Security Agency Director Administrator Mike Rogers following their unforthcoming responses when questioned by the Senate Intelligence Committee.These could be the subpoenas that Chuck Grassley was referring to, but you can make up your own mind by reading Feinstein s letter and watching Raju and Grassley s exchange, here.GRASSLEY says he's meeting soon with Feinstein to discuss subpoeanas on Russia, FBI, Comey probes.
https://t.co/wgNDVuy29D Manu Raju (@mkraju) June 13, 2017Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images