The New York Times published a piece displaying the 282 people Donald Trump has insulted on Twitter since he announced his run for the White House.
It had to be a daunting task for the paper because the GOP nominee uses his Twitter account like a punching bag against anyone who hurts his tender feelings.
The GOP presidential nominee needs to be in an anger management group instead of social media.
According to Donald, though, the people he lashed out at deserved it.
It s ok, most of them deserved, Trump said on ABC s Good Morning America.
I believe in fighting back when people are against me, when they tell lies, you know, I have the power of this instrument and frankly sometimes I ll use that, he continued.
And I agree sometimes it will revert back or sometimes maybe it doesn t come out you have to be careful with it.
Melania Trump was also interviewed.
She explained that as First Lady, she would focus on social media.
The wife of a cyberbully said, What s going on is very hurtful to children, to some adults as well.
We need to teach [children] how to use it, what is right to say, what is not right to say, because it is very bad out there and children get hurt, she added without one bit of irony.Trump said that he agreed that so many people are hurt by social media.
She feels very strongly about.
She understands it very well, Trump said.Trump hasn t changed.
Even before his run for the presidency, he insulted random Twitter users.
Are you making less than minimum wage, don t worry, the government will protect you.
Afraid to give your real name?
You should be, Donald tweeted to a Twitter user in 2013.
By the way, Trump blocked that Twitter user after the exchange.Imagine if Barack Obama lashed out at random people on the Internet because people hurt his feefees in 2008 then in 2012.Donald continued his rigged election rhetoric in the interview.
That s likely because he s preparing himself for defeat in November.
He won t take losing gracefully and neither will his supporters.Image via screen capture.