One thing President Trump has been able to do while in office is expose the politicians who are not true conservatives and who aren t supporting his policies.
Politicians like Jeff Flake fought Trump on immigration and border security every step of the way.
The voters agreed with Trump so Flake was heading for defeat in Arizona by a large margin.
Instead of announcing his decision to not seek reelection quietly, Flake chose to grandstand and bash President Trump in what can only be described as a sour grapes hate-fest.
Below is a list of centrist and left-leaning Republicans In Name Only who are not seeking reelection:MAYBE THEY CAN RUN AS DEMOCRATS NEXT TIMEThe 2018 midterm elections on Tuesday, Nov. 6, will give President Trump his first chance to defend the Republican Party s Senate and House majorities.
Already, however, several Republicans in Congress have announced they won t be running for re-election.
Here s our running list:Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn.After tangling with President Trump, including questioning his stability and competence, Corker put an end to speculation and announced he would not be running again in 2018.
Corker and Trump have since engaged in multiple scraps on Twitter, Corker calling it a shame the White House has become an adult day care center and Trump saying Corker couldn t get elected dog catcher.
Rep. Charlie Dent, R-Pa.Dent, a centrist Republican, announced in September that he d decided against running for re-election after consulting with family and advisers.
Pennsylvania state Rep. Justin Simmons had announced he would challenge Dent in the primary.
Rep. John Duncan, R-Tenn.Sen.
Jeff Flake, R-Ariz.Flake confirmed his decision in a Senate floor speech in October and condemned the current state of politics, specifically President Trump, as one of the main reasons he s deciding to step aside.
Related: Republicans fear flood of centrist retirements ahead of 2018 electionsLynn Jenkins, R-KansasRep.
Sam Johnson, R-TexasRep.
Tim Murphy, R-Pa.Publicly pro-life, Murphy said he would not be running for re-election in 2018 after it was revealed that he had asked his mistress to have an abortion.Rep.
Dave Reichert, R-Wash.Reichert faced tense townhall crowds during the August recess, and announced upon returning in September that he had decided this will be my last term.
A number of Democrats were already preparing to try to challenge him.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee celebrated afterward that clearly, Congressman Reichert saw the writing on the wall.
Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla.Cuban-American and the first Hispanic woman elected to Congress, Ros-Lehtinen announced back in April 2017 that she will retire at the end of her current term.
Speaker Paul Ryan afterward called her a force.
She has clashed with President Trump on transgender issues, deportations, and his travel ban.
Rep. Pat Tiberi, R-OhioRep.
Dave Trott, R-Mich.A centrist Republican who has criticized President Trump, Trott announced in September after some speculation that he would not seek a third term.Read more: WE