A rookie police officer in Millis who said Wednesday that someone shot his cruiser before it crashed and burst into flames fabricated the story, police said.The officer, 24, said he was traveling on Forest Road when he saw a red or maroon pickup truck traveling in the opposite direction.
He said when the two vehicles met, the driver opened fire on the police cruiser, police say.
My cruiser s been shot at.
I m at Forest Road.
It s going to be a dark maroon pickup, the officer radioed to dispatch at 2:17 p.m.The officer said he spun around, and in an attempt to avoid the gunfire and seek shelter, he slammed into a tree and the cruiser burst into flames.
We have determined that the officer s story was fabricated.
Specifically, that he fired shots at his own cruiser as a plan to concoct a story that he was fired upon, Millis Police Sgt.
William Dwyer said.
The evidence indicates the shots were not fired by a suspect, and there is no gunman at large in or around the town.
A massive manhunt for the alleged gunman was launched.
The neighborhood was immediately locked down while police units, including a SWAT team, K-9 officers and a Massachusetts State Police helicopter combed the area.Residents who were told to stay indoors or couldn t get home because of the lockdown said they were dumbfounded that the story may have been made up.
With all these police officers actually getting hurt in this world, why he is doing that I don t know, Nancy Haney said.Dwyer said the officer is new to the force and has not yet attended the police academy.
He said the officer will be terminated, and his name will not be released until the investigation is complete.
Via: WCBV TVHERE IS THE ORIGINAL STORY:A Massachusetts police cruiser crashed and caught fire after it was struck by gunfire Wednesday afternoon, and now police are looking for the gunman.The incident occurred at approximately 3:00 p.m. in the town of Millis, about 20 miles southwest of Boston, according to Massachusetts State Police.Shepard Smith reported that police have confirmed that an officer was in the vehicle when it was struck by at least one bullet.
The officer then ran his car off the road and crashed it, causing the vehicle to catch fire.Police have said they are not aware of any injuries at this time.Shep reported that witnesses say they saw a white man fire a gun from a dark-colored, possibly maroon, pickup truck.State and local police, along with fire investigators, are taking part in the investigation and search for the gunman.Via: FOX News