For months, various third parties have been making all sorts of noises about how we need third-party candidates in the presidential elections if we ever want to break the tyranny of the two-party system.
This has resonated especially well with people who think Hillary Clinton is about as bad as Donald Trump.
However, Libertarian Gary Johnson, and his running mate, Bill Weld, have issued a surprising announcement about this election that doesn t include begging for votes for Johnson.The Johnson-Weld campaign believes that Trump is a monumentally bad choice for President of the United States, saying, in their statement on the matter: A President of the United States operates every day under a great deal of pressure from all sides, and in furtherance of many different agendas.
With that pressure comes constant criticism.After careful observation and reflection, I have come to believe that Donald Trump, if elected President of the United States, would not be able to stand up to this pressure and this criticism without becoming unhinged and unable to perform competently the duties of his office.
[emphasis mine]No, Trump wouldn t be able to handle the pressure.
Johnson and Weld are both reading this quite correctly, because Trump is a) too thin-skinned to deal with hostile world leaders who might ridicule him (along with a hostile Congress that just won t do his bidding), and b) just plain too mired in fascism to be the leader of the free world.
He would destroy the free world.The campaign went on to say: Mr. Trump has some charisma and panache, and intellectual quickness.
These qualities can be entertaining.
Yet more than charisma, more even than intellectual ability, is required of a serious candidate for this country s highest office.
A serious candidate for the Presidency of the United States must be stable, and Donald Trump is not stable.
[emphasis mine]While it does sound like they re admitting defeat and endorsing Hillary, or, at least, trying to convince people to vote for Hillary, that s not quite the case, whatever other sites have claimed.
The Johnson-Weld campaign wants the Nov. 8 election to be between Johnson and Hillary, rather than Hillary and Trump: Governor Weld and Governor Johnson are campaigning nonstop, with rallies and appearances scheduled over the next few days across the country from Alaska to Cincinnati, and are fully committed to giving voters the third choice they deserve in this election.Any suggestion to the contrary is the product of active imaginations and partisans in both the Republican and Democrat camps who see how many independents, millennials [sic] and other disenfranchised voters are looking to the Johnson-Weld ticket as a vote they can cast in good conscience.
Either way, the Johnson campaign, despite being much closer to Republicans than Democrats ideologically, cannot stomach voting for Trump.
They can t tolerate their voters voting for Trump, either, but neither do they want their voters choosing Hillary.Featured image by Bill McCay via Getty Images for SiriusXM