Donald Trump has his staff working on the logistics of allowing him to stay in his gilded apartment in New York City very frequently during the next four years.
That possibility has an awful lot of bad implications, including shutting down sidewalks and parts of streets near Trump Tower.
It seems, though, that we don t even have to wait for him to be sworn in to witness the effects of his selfish plans.
New York City is already seeing them.His already-excessive presence in NYC is actually starting to cripple businesses in the area.
The area around Trump Tower, which is also home to some of the nation s biggest retailers, has been swarming with security, Secret Service, and protesters.
Entire sections of 5th Avenue get shut down in order to protect King Summer Squash from all the baddies who might be out and about around there.The retailers in trouble include places like Tiffany & Co., Hollister, Polo Ralph Lauren, and Abercrombie & Fitch.
Their 5th Avenue stores aren t just their highest-volume locations, they re the flagship stores for all these chains and they depend heavily on the traffic they now aren t getting.Worse, because Trump wants to spend so much time in his grossly ostentatious, gold-plated apartment throughout his term, these stores may face this most, if not every single, weekend for the next four years.
Their weekend traffic is very likely much higher than their weekday traffic, for obvious reasons.Tiffany & Co. s main entrance has been closed since Election Day because of protests and the security needed to keep Trump safe.
They wouldn t comment on whether their traffic or sales volumes have been affected, and neither would anybody else, but Tiffany doesn t know when or if their 5th Avenue entrance will open again.RBC Capital Markets analyst, Brian Tunick, mentioned that there s a traffic risk there, along with Hollister and Abercrombie & Fitch, due to the security issues.Sure, some people might say, Oh, these are national chains, so what s the big deal?
The big deal is that there are still people who work at these stores who could lose their jobs if these locations see too much of a drop in sales volume.
Trump is a man who promised to bring back the good jobs and ensure Americans have good-paying jobs if he was elected.While there s no guarantee right now that anybody will lose jobs at these stores, there also isn t any guarantee anymore that they won t. Any job losses, or worse, store closures, because of the Cheeto King s need to be at home instead of the White House, where he belongs, will be on his head because he cares more about himself and his comfort than what his presence might do to the areas surrounding his homes.Featured image by Spencer Platt via Getty Images