When Republican Indiana Governor Mike Pence signed HB 1337 into law last week, he wasn t expecting women to personally keep him informed about their bodily functions.
But that is exactly what is happening since Pence and Republicans made a new law banning abortion based on race or gender, requiring doctors to have admitting privileges at local hospitals, and forces doctors to provide information about perinatal hospice care to a pregnant woman who is considering an abortion because the unborn child has been diagnosed with a lethal fetal anomaly.
In other words, women considering an abortion will be lectured by their doctor after being informed about any lethal fetal anomaly.
Once a woman is informed of such an anomaly, she will no longer be able to get an abortion because the new law prohibits abortions in such cases.
That means women are going to be forced to carry fetuses with anomalies to term, regardless of viability, which means women could end up giving birth to babies that will suffer and die soon after being born.In response to this latest attack on a woman s right to choose, women are actually calling in to inform Governor Pence of their reproductive cycle status and the phone conversations are comedy gold.
I need to get a message to the Governor that I am on day three of my period.
My flow seems abnormally heavy, but my cramps are much better to she tells the person who answered before being interrupted.
Ma am, what is it that I can help you with?
the person asks.
Oh, I don t need your help, I just wanted to keep Governor Pence informed of my reproductive cycle, since he seems so concerned, the woman replied.The phone calls are the result of a call-to-action campaign led by a group known as Periods for Pence, which seeks to give women a voice in the state since Pence and Republicans didn t really consider what women think before imposing their anti-abortion agenda on all women in Indiana.
The more I read this bill, the more vague language I found and the more loopholes, and it just seemed incredibly intrusive, the creator of the campaign told WRTV.
So I wanted to give a voice for women who really didn t feel like they were given any kind of input into a bill that would affect our life so much.
The campaign s Facebook page even generously provided the number to reach the Governor s Office, which is 317-232-4567, for those of you who want to know, and women started calling the number to keep Pence updated on what s going on with their uterus since Pence and the GOP want to know so desperately.
And it led to the call above and this one: Good Morning, a woman said upon reaching the Governor s office.
I just wanted to inform the Governor that things seem to be drying up today.
No babies seem to be up in there.
Okay?
Upon being asked her name, the woman replied that her name is Sue Magina.
That s M-A-G-I-N-A.
It rhymes with she said before being cut off.Here s the video:Yeah, this campaign is perfect and I m sure Governor Pence is super-stoked about receiving constant updates on what s going on with women s reproductive cycles.
So women should definitely call him and make sure to provide as many details as possible.
After all, he clearly wants to know since he can t stop invading women s privacy to regulate their reproductive health decisions.
Featured image via Indiana Talks