Van Jones humiliated them so badly that one guy actually changed his opinion of him.During the RNC Convention last week, Van Jones was approached by a trio of Trump supporters including alt-right conservative rising star Owen Shroyer, who was itching to try to embarrass Jones in a video he hoped would go viral and make himself a new conservative hero by interrogating the former President Obama adviser about Donald Trump and Black Lives Matter.Instead, Van Jones put the little punks in their place.Shroyer wanted to know why Van Jones thinks Trump is a racist.
Jones responded by teaching him a lesson on character and proceeded to explain that he thinks Trump is a racial opportunist who is using racial tensions to get power.Then Shroyer tried to portray Hillary Clinton as a racial opportunist by claiming that she responded to the shooting of police officers in Dallas by saying white people need to feel guilt when it comes to the grievances of African-Americans.Van Jones expressed that he didn t think Clinton did that, and he was right.
Nowhere in her Twitter response did Hillary use the word guilt.
She merely asked white Americans to listen.
White Americans need to do a better job of listening when African Americans talk about the seen and unseen barriers you face every day, she wrote.White Americans need to do a better job of listening when African Americans talk about the seen and unseen barriers you face every day.
Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 8, 2016Shroyer moved on to whining about Black Lives Matter and the protests that occurred in Ferguson, Missouri in the wake of the killing of Michael Brown by white police officer Darren Wilson.Jones asked Shroyer if he is confident that the Justice Department was right not to pursue charges against Wilson.
Shroyer said he is.
And that s when Jones pounced.Because while Shroyer praised the Justice Department decision on Wilson he ignored the fact that the Justice Department also reported that there was systemic racism within the Ferguson Police Department.
The only thing you see in Ferguson, and this is where my heart breaks, the only thing you see in Ferguson is that there was a protest about a case that later turned out to be a false situation.
And yet the same department also who you already said was credible came out and said that there was massive, widespread abuse of the black population, which is part of why they believed what was going on.
And yet with that, I don t see the same level of concern.
It is much worse to me to hear that a whole police department has been giving extra tickets to a community that s terrible than if somebody was wrong about some protest.
And when Shroyer accused Van Jones of being anti-police because he supports Black Lives Matter, Jones masterfully explained what the BLM movement is all about in a single sentence.
I believe in law and order, I just want the police to obey the law too.
I don t want anyone going to a funeral, black or blue.
In the end, Shroyer was forced to change his opinion of Van Jones and went from hating him to having a growing respect for him.Here s the video via YouTube:And that s how you take down a right-wing troll.Featured Image: Screenshot