Leftist Disney owned ESPN has a strange way of determining who is and isn t the type of host they want to be the face of their network.
ESPN just fired baseball great Curt Schilling for sharing an opinion that was contrary to that of leftist Disney owned ESPN when he shared this meme on his personal Facebook page:Schilling added, A man is a man no matter what they call themselves.
I don t care what they are, who they sleep with, men s room was designed for the penis, women s not so much.
Now you need laws telling us differently?
Pathetic.
ESPN then fired Schilling, announcing, ESPN is an inclusive company.
Curt Schilling has been advised that his conduct was unacceptable and his employment with ESPN has been terminated.
Asked about the controversy on local radio, Schilling explained, To be in a place where people actually believe I m a racist or I m transphobic says to me that something has gone horribly askew somewhere.
This wasn t the first time Schilling felt the heat from ESPN for his political views.
He got slammed for retweeting a graphic that read, It s said only 5%-10% of Muslims are extremists.
In 1940, only 7% of Germans were Nazis.
How d that go?
Schilling added, The math is staggering when you get to true # s. This was too much for ESPN, which had to step in to defend ISIS, and promptly suspended him from broadcast.Schilling made the horrible mistake of speaking truth in a place where only leftist falsehood is tolerated.
ESPN has no problem firing a beloved host for speaking out against radical Islam and the LGBTQ-WXYZ Mafia.
ESPN seems to have a soft spot however for female reporters like Britt McHenry (seen in video below) who berate and bully women who she considers to be less fortunate and important than her.
Watch here:McHenry was given a one week suspension for her horrific and condescending behavior.ESPN host Stephen A. Smith spoke about former Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice beating his then-girlfriend, and stated, We also have to make sure that we learn as much as we can about elements of provocation.
Not that there s real provocation, but the elements of provocation, you got to make sure that you address them, because we ve got to do is do what we can to try to prevent the situation from happening in any way.
And I don t think that s broached enough, is all I m saying.
No point of blame.
He was suspended for one week.
Schilling suggesting that women be protected from men invading their restrooms, however, was a fireable offense.In the aftermath of the same incident, ESPN host Max Kellerman told a charming story about how when he was dating his now-wife, they were both drunk; she slapped him, and he slapped her back.
That carried a short suspension.
Kellerman is now back on the air regularly.None of these people committed the ultimate crime: stating that men and women are biologically different and should pee in different places.
ESPN, of course, also stumps for more coverage of women s sports, which suggests a question: why not simply open up all women s sports to men, in the name of equality for people of all genders?
Or wouldn t that comply with the logically incoherent leftist positional chart?To see more examples of people still working at ESPN who should ve been canned: Daily Wire