Former New York Mayor and right-wing puppet Rudy Giuliani stepped in on Wednesday to defend Trump after his, let s say controversial, remark that Second Amendment People should assassinate Hillary Clinton.
On Good Morning America, Giuliani dumbsplained that The Donald couldn t have possibly threatened Clinton because the crowd didn t cheer loudly enough.
We know Donald Trump is not particularly indirect, Giuliani told George Stephanopoulos.
If Donald Trump was going to say something like that, he d say something like that.
Hillary wants to abolish essentially abolish the Second Amendment.
By the way, if she gets to pick, if she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks.
Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is, I don t know, Trump said on Tuesday, echoing right-wing rhetoric typically associated with dealing with political enemies.
But I tell you what, that will be a horrible day, if Hillary gets to put her judges in, right now we re tied.
For years, conservatives have accused President Obama and Hillary Clinton of attempting to strip guns from the hands of Americans, calling for the assassination of both political figures as the only way to deal with the perceived problem.
The need to murder the President and former First Lady is a sentiment echoed by many of Trump s followers, especially the Second Amendment People and one Trump himself seems to have adopted in his rhetoric.
This is something Giuliani clearly recognizes.
However, he says that Trump didn t say the thing he said because the enthusiastically hateful crowd didn t cheer loudly enough: You know how speeches go.
He was talking about how they [gun rights advocates] have the power to keep her out of office.
That s what he was talking about.
With a crowd like that, if that s what they thought he d meant, they d have gone wild.
Trump fans have repeatedly called for the former First Lady s arrest and execution at his rallies, with The Donald and other speakers egging them on.
Since Clinton has done nothing illegal and can not be imprisoned, assassination is left as the only option for many of them, including Trump, who projected a message of hopelessness clearly intended to encourage gun nuts to take action on his behalf.The threat was so serious that the Secret Service has made the unprecedented move of commenting on the clear federal offense via Trump s favorite platform: Twitter.The Secret Service is aware of the comments made earlier this afternoon.
U.S. Secret Service (@SecretService) August 9, 2016A former top Secret Service official told Time that if he was still with the agency, he would contact someone on Trump s campaign staff to have a conversation about whether he understands the consequences of that rhetoric.
It will be interesting to see how this plays out.
If everything happens as it should, Trump could be the first presidential candidate to be simultaneously protected by, and investigated by, the Secret Service.Watch Giuliani s insane remarks below:Featured image via screengrab