Republican front runner Donald Trump has stopped events for strange reasons before let s not forget that the business mogul once hijacked and paused an entire GOP debate, just so that he could assure America that there was no problem with the size of his penis.
He s at it again, and this time is just as bizarre.CNN had wisely decided to cover President Barack Obama s press conference with Raul Castro instead of Trump s address to the press after his meeting with Republicans in DC, but when the network turned back to Trump s press conference things got really weird.
While taking questions from the audience at the construction site of the Trump International Hotel, the candidate decided to stop the show and give a woman a job interview on the spot while cameras were rolling and everyone else awkwardly looked on.The woman identified herself as a 9/11 survivor and an Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran, telling Trump: I love the policy that you have for the military.
I wanted to know if Trump towers would be part of the veterans job Trump cut the woman off and said, What are you talking about here?
We are doing some of that actually already.
We have it very much involved.
Why what are you looking for?
What kind of a position?
Then Trump invited her to come up here on stage with him.As the woman joined him, Trump asked the crowd gathered at his soon-to-be hotel, Do you mind if I do a job interview right now?
We need good people.
For this job interview , Trump instructed the woman to tell everyone about about her experience with design and decorating.
In those few seconds, Trump decided that she would be a great employee and passed her off to the men in charge of the building, saying that if they could negotiate a great deal on her salary, she would probably have a job in no time.You can watch this strange, impromptu interview below:WATCH: Donald Trump conducts impromptu job interview during press conference.https://t.co/KNb43kll8c CSPAN (@cspan) March 21, 2016The interview was so weird and uncomfortable to watch, Trump got grilled by the next reporter he chose to take questions from.
The reporter asked Trump why he would offer a job to a complete stranger.
Trump responded: I felt good about her.
I ll tell you what, I looked at her, I said she, you know, I have gut instincts, OK?
And we re allowed to have that.
And I looked at her and she asked a question and it was a very positive question she just seemed like a good person to me.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore