A Republican Senator found himself in a tough position when he was trapped on a flight with an American citizen who wanted answers about the disgusting repeal and replacement of Obamacare.Oklahoma resident Kendall Brown noticed that she was on the same flight as Sen. James Lankford (R-OK) on Thursday evening, and decided to take him up on his claim that he would listen to all voices if anyone had questions about the GOP s new health care bill.
Brown had previously sent letters, emails, and tweets to Lankford, but so far she had been unable to get a response to her questions.
However, now that she realized Lankford was trapped on the same airplane with her, she decided this was a great opportunity to get some answers.Once Brown noticed Lankford, she posted a photo of him to her Facebook page, and soon people were begging her to ask him questions.
Brown first tried to get Lankford s attention on Twitter, asking him to chat with her about Trump s disastrous plan to repeal and replace Obamacare: However, Brown still didn t get a response.
Twitter users even began to suggest that Brown try to approach him in person.
Brown opted to write him a note, and by the time she was finished she must have gotten Lankford s attention because he actually approached her!Lankford asked Brown specifically what her question was and she said: I want to share my story with you and I want to have my voice heard on why the ACA is important to me.
The conversation ended with an agreement to speak sometime in the near future about the GOP s bill at length.UPDATE: I spoke with @SenatorLankford and gave him this.
I m very hopeful we ll be able to get coffee this week & look forward to chatting!
pic.twitter.com/AtbRwkJm6P Kendally Brown ?
(@kendallybrown) March 24, 2017While Brown doesn t think Lankford will meet her in person, she hopes they might chat on the phone.
She is passionate about addressing her concerns with Lankford, because earlier that day Lankford said in an interview that he would listen to all voices something that Brown doesn t think he truly means, considering he hasn t held a town hall on the topic yet.
She said: He pretty specifically isn t listening to all voices right now and that s why I approached him.
I know there are a lot of people out there that have just as compelling stories about why they need the ACA.
So, I had an obligation to approach him, not just for me but for everyone.
As Brown s story has gotten more attention, her social media accounts are now full of stories from Americans stating how Obamacare helped them.
Brown says she is going to print these stories out and give them to Lankford so he can see how disastrous the repeal and replacement of Obamacare might be.Featured image via Kendally Brown Facebook