Things are not looking good for Donald Trump, and Hillary Clinton is making sure things will only get worse.Just a day after being cleared by the FBI s investigation into her emails, the former Secretary of State headed to Atlantic City, New Jersey to trash Trump s shameful business record right outside of one of Trump s own failed casinos!
Standing in front of the bankrupt and shuttered Trump Plaza Casino, Clinton exposed Trump s lies and mocked him in a brilliant, scathing speech.Speaking to a crowd of about 500 people, Clinton pointed out how Trump s involvement in New Jersey had caused multiple bankruptcies, stiffing contractors and spurring hundreds of job losses.
Warning voters that Trump would do exactly what he did in Atlantic City to America if he won the election, she said: Remember what he promised: I m going to do for the country what I did for my business.
We should believe him and make sure he never has the chance to bankrupt America the way he bankrupted his businesses.
Clinton s speech was only 30 minutes long, but it was all she needed to take Trump and his scammy business endeavors down.
Making a perfect example out of Trump Plaza, Clinton joked: Donald Trump once predicted it was the biggest hit yet.
Now it s abandoned.
Now ask yourself, according to the Donald, isn t he supposed to be some sort of amazing businessman?
What in the world happened here?
She was especially passionate because this topic hit home for the presumptive Democratic candidate, whose father was a small business owner.
She said, This is personal for me as she cited an example of how Trump left small business owners with unpaid bills: The people he is trying to convince to vote for him now are the same people he s been exploiting for years: Working people, small business people, trying to support their families.
He got rich and got out.
And he thinks that s something to be proud of.
He didn t just take advantage of investors, he took advantage of working people as well.
Here are some highlights from her speech, which show just how brutal Clinton was:TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterTwitterClinton also made sure to trash one of Trump s biggest supporters, former presidential candidate and New Jersey governor Chris Christie, for being away campaigning with Trump instead of looking after his state.
Clinton said:Clinton s main message to Americans was that when Trump is left in charge of anything, people get hurt and Donald gets paid.
You can watch Clinton slam Trump in her speech below:Featured image is a screenshot