A citizen from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was brutally arrested after racist Islamophobes in Avon, Ohio, called the cops on him because he was wearing traditional UAE clothing and having the gall to speak Arabic on his personal cell phone.
Ahmed al Menhali was merely a guest visiting the U.S. and staying at a Fairfield Inn, but, true to form for the racist Islamophobes, he s obviously a terrorist, because reasons.It was apparently two people who called 911 the hotel clerk s sister and her father: The caller reported her sister told her there was a male in the lobby in full head dress with multiple disposable phones pledging his allegiance to ISIS.
Avon Police then received a second 911 call from the desk clerk s father who also requested assistance on behalf of his daughter.
When police arrived, though, they found al Menhali simply speaking Arabic into one phone.
Despite that, they brutally pinned him to the ground and cuffed him, according to the Council on American Islamic Relations, and police body-cam footage seems to confirm that.
They were supposedly following standard protocol until they discovered that al Menhali was, in fact, totally unarmed.
No bombs, no guns, no nothing.Below is the body-cam video from one of the responding officers:This is what Republicans have wrought upon society with their ongoing fear-mongering regarding Muslims and terrorism.
They spout disgusting, ignorant rhetoric, and then morons like this hotel clerk, who clearly buy into everything bad they hear about Muslims, call the cops on totally innocent people.What s worse is that the right-wing pundits who spew forth this racist rhetoric would likely be fired if they said it about Jews or Christians, but noooooooooo.
If they re talking about Islam, then they believe all is well.
Despite efforts from some of our leaders, including George W. Bush, to try and separate the religion of Islam from terrorism, we still have people like His Royal Islamophobe, King Trump, along with Ted Cruz, Mike Huckabee, and others, stoking irrational, paranoid fires like they ll freeze instantly if they don t.We re also getting good at pissing countries right the hell off with this crap.
The UAE was sorely disappointed that one of their citizens was treated this way for zero reason, to the point where their government called up our deputy mission chief (i.e., the Department of State) over there about the brutal ill-treatment meted out by the Ohio Police to an Emirati citizen.
They were apparently told that we respect the right of foreign nationals to wear clothing in accordance with their traditions and views, but it s patently obvious that we don t, all because of what if.
The UAE also felt they had to send out a warning to their citizens traveling abroad: For citizens traveling outside the country, and in order to ensure their safety, we point out not to wear formal dress while traveling, especially in public places.
[emphasis mine]That sounds an awful lot like telling women to dress more modestly if they don t want to be raped.
How about we actually stop teaching people that all Muslims are terrorists?
One single hotel clerk from a small town managed to cause an international hassle thanks to GOP fear-mongering.
At least the mayor of Avon has the city reviewing the incident to decide if the people responsible for this should face charges:Message from Mayor Jensen: pic.twitter.com/wH63Uzmhdh City of Avon, OH (@CityofAvonOH) July 4, 2016Here s a hint for them: Yes, they absolutely should.The mayor of Avon called this incident a miscommunication in that apology letter.
Miscommunication our lily-white asses.
This was a result of the blatant racism and Islamophobia that Republicans with miniature brains, and their frightened, paranoid, xenophobic little mouthpieces, have sown here.
This hotel clerk should be fired at the bare minimum, she and her family should face charges, and Republicans need to stop their racist fuckery and accept responsibility for creating an environment that leads to ordinary people in small towns creating international problems.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video