Ever since President Barack Obama entered the White House, the Republican Party has done whatever they could to undermine his authority and sabotage his efforts to improve America.
This couldn t have been more clear when the GOP threatened to block any nominee the president chose to replace the late Supreme Court justice Antonin Scalia a few weeks ago.According to South Carolina Senator and Senate Judiciary Committee member Lindsey Graham, this is just going to be the new rule .
On Thursday, Graham announced during a Committee meeting that the Senate would block any nominee that would be appointed if it was within a year before an election.
Graham said: We are setting a precedent today.
That in the last year of a lame-duck eight-year term that you cannot fill a vacancy in the Supreme Court.
Based on what we re doing here today.
That s going to be the new rule.
We re headed to changing the rules, probably in a permanent fashion.
This new strategy from the GOP to not even consider a Supreme Court nominee differs greatly from what Republicans had originally described as a tradition.
Graham insisted that he just wants to have a nominee that will be chosen by the next president, but it seems to be more personal.
To be completely honest, this is the first time the Judiciary Committee has refused to hold a hearing for a nominee since it began holding hearings for nominations and it s because the GOP takes major issue with Obama.
With Graham s statement above, the GOPer basically just admitted that this is the first time in history that such a blockade has occurred.You can watch Graham admit to his party s childish behavior below:It is Obama s constitutional obligation as POTUS to choose a nominee, and despite the resistance from the Senate, the president has been going forward and fulfilling his job duties, unlike Republicans like Graham and Majority Leader of the Senate Mitch McConnell.
The president is expected to announce a nominee within the next few days.
Featured image via John Premble via Flickr