The right-wing was quick to claim that Clinton had experienced her own 47% moment with her basket full of deplorables remark.
But nothing could be further from the truth.
Clinton s remark turns out to be fairly accurate.In fact, if anything Clinton actually undersold just how deplorable Trump s supporters actually are.
During an appearance on CBS s Face the Nation on Sunday, Slate s chief political correspondent, Jamelle Bouie explained how the statement Clinton made is supported by scientific evidence.Bouie looked at polling data that showed that more than half of Republicans believe that President is a Muslim or was born in another country.
So, I m inclined to see it as strategy and not so much as a gaffe because when I heard the remark, my first question was: Well, is this true?
Right?
Regardless of how it sounds, what it looks like, what is the case about Donald Trump supporters?
Bouie asks.
And if you break down the numbers and you look at the RealClearPolitics average, and it gives Trump, 43 percent of the registered voters, there re about 30, 31 million people.
Compare that to polls show 65 to 70 percent of all Republicans who say that Barack Obama either wasn t born in the United States or is a Muslim.
If one doesn t think that believe that birtherism is a bad enough belief to hold to earn the title of deplorable, then Bouie has the data to show that roughly have of Republicans are racist.
You look at pilot data from the American National Election Study, and it shows upward of 40 percent of Republicans saying things like blacks are more violent, blacks are lazier, Muslims are more violent, Muslims are lazier, Bouie points out.
Among Trump supporters in particular, 60, 50, 70 percent of them agree with statements that political scientists categorize as being explicitly racist, Bouie continues.
So I m looking at Clinton s statement, and half, which is about 31 million people again, doesn t really seem that out of bounds.
Forty to 50 percent of Republicans, I would say looking at the full spectrum of data, agree with beliefs that we would categorize as explicitly prejudiced.
So regardless of whether or not Clinton needs to walk it back or not, I think she s being correct and accurate.
Conservatives are angry at Clinton because they still cannot accept that pointing out bigotry and racism do not make the person bringing it up racist.
Clinton may have half-heartedly backtracked on her statement; her sentiment was worded poorly even if it was accurate.As Bakari Sellers pointed out on Sunday While on CNN s State of the Union, it doesn t matter how many of Trump s supporters are bigoted racists or not because they are all supporting a candidate who is a bigot.There is no left-wing conspiracy out there to make Republicans and trump supporters like deplorable.
As polling indicates, they self-identify as being racist bigots on their own.You can watch the clip below.Featured image from video screenshot