If you wanted to see how low the Trump campaign would go to win, look no further than the stunt they pulled at the second presidential debate.
For weeks the Trump campaign had been hinting they would invite Bill Clinton s alleged victims to the debates, but they teetered when GOP establishment shut them down.Well, at the second debate, they did just that.
They invited four women, including Paula Jones and Juanita Broaddrick, to sit front and center as the two candidates squared off.One victim, however, wasn t a victim of Bill Clinton.
She, Kathy Shelton, was the victim of Thomas Alfred Taylor, a rapist Hillary Clinton was assigned to represent in the 1970s.Clinton represented her client, begrudgingly and reluctantly, but had to uphold her oath as an attorney to represent her client to the best of her ability.
It worked.Yet Shelton still blames Clinton, accusing her of crossing the ethical boundaries beholden to an attorney (she didn t or she would have been disbarred).
So what did the Trump campaign do?
They paid Shelton $2,500 to record an in-depth interview with her regarding her experiences with Hillary.The money was funneled by Roger Stone, the insane and graphically vile Trump ally, through his PAC, Committee to Restore America s Greatness.So now the Trump campaign is buying off Hillary haters and coordinating directly with PACs.According the Associated Press:Stone has arranged to pay other women critical of the Clintons.Earlier this year, Stone sought to raise money to pay off the mortgage of Kathleen Willey, who accused Bill Clinton of making unwanted sexual advances toward her during her time as a volunteer in his White House in the 1990s.
Stone claimed in an online video interview that Trump had personally contributed to the fund.Trump s campaign has not endorsed Stone s political action committee, and has sent the group a cease and desist letter.
The campaign has denied that Trump gave money to Willey s mortgage fund.Classy, Republicans.
Real classy.
Buying victims of childhood sex abuse to smear a qualified woman while their own candidate admits, on tape, to sexually assaulting women.
Republicans have forfeited the right to call themselves the party of family values and morality.Kathy Shelton is once again being victimized, this time by a national political party who can t win on ideas, so they have to win on disgusting tactics like this.How much lower will they sink?Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images