Did you know that people who support Donald Trump s unconstitutional Muslim ban are idiots?
This isn t just a flippant remark about them; there s evidence like the fact that most of them think the Bowling Green Massacre, which did not happen, completely justifies Trump s executive order.A new report from Public Policy Polling found that most Americans 48 to 43 percent view the travel ban as targeting Muslims , and only 22 percent of Americans support that position.
In fact, the phrase one would have to be an idiot to support the Muslim ban is now more true than ever.
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: the Bowling Green massacre shows why we need Donald Trump s executive order on immigration?
respondents were asked, with 57 percent disagreeing and only 23 percent backing that position.The low number of Americans who still somehow think the Bowling Green Massacre is real is positive but when PPP looked at numbers among Trump supporters, they found that more than half view the Massacre That Didn t Happen as justification for Trump s ban:66% of Americans consider the United States to be a safe country, to only 23% who consider it unsafe.
Perhaps as an outgrowth of that sentiment only 45% of voters support Trump s Executive Order on immigration, to 49% who are opposed to it.
Among those who do support it you have to wonder how well thought out their position is- by a 51/23 margin Trump voters say that the Bowling Green Massacre shows why Trump s immigration policy is needed.
By a 48/43 spread, voters do think that the intent of the Executive Order is to be a Muslim ban.
And just 22% support a Muslim ban, to 65% who are opposed.Trump is likely sweating bullets, as the poll also reveals that almost half 48 percent of Americans want to see him impeached.
His henchmen and women are growing steadily more unpopular too.
47 percent of Americans (compared to 34 percent who like her) find Kellyanne Conway to be detestable, 41 percent (32% like him) are dissatisfied with Sean Spicer s performance.
A whopping 49 percent (compared to 27 percent) don t like Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, and 72 percent hate Trump s best friend Vladimir Putin.
In fact a sign of how desperate things have gotten more Americans (38 percent to 30 percent) say they would rather see Mike Pence as President than Trump.
Hillary Clinton still wins in that regard, 49 percent to 45 percent.Even worse for Trump is the demographics of those polled.
Only 39 percent of respondents identify as Democrats while 60 percent say they are Republicans or Independents, the exact groups Trump courted when he was running for President.
In other words, there s no claiming that this poll was loaded with Democrats for Trump fans.Donald Trump said during the election that he loves the poorly educated, but he might as well have said stupid.
Though Kellyanne Conway has used the Bowling Green Massacre in her scaremongering numerous time and ultimately admitted she lied about its existence, The Donald s supporters still take it as gospel.
They ve gone from alternative facts to alternative reality.
featured image via Getty Images (Chip Somodevilla)/screengrab