Lack of leadership?
How about pot calling the kettle brown?
Obama was at the helm of the MOST leaderless presidency EVER!
He couldn t make a move unless it was to line his pockets or promote his communist ideology.
What a joke that he s shadowing President Trump by going overseas.
Lou Hobbs and Steve Forbes had choice words for Obama last week on his effort to be relevant (see below)NOTE TO OBAMA: WE DITCHED THE GLOBAL WARMING SCAM!
WHAT S THERE TO LEAD?While speaking to a group of business leaders in Paris, former President Barack Obama said there is a temporary absence of American leadership when it comes to tackling climate change.
I grant you that at the moment we have a temporary absence of American leadership on the issue, the former president noted, which was met with laughter from the room full of French former ministers and CEOs at the invite-only event, according to Reuters.However, he noted, you re seeing American companies and states and cities continuing to work to meet targets and stay on track.According to ABC News, the swipe at the current administration was part of a speech Obama delivered at the event, Fear Less, Innovate More.
HERE S WHAT WE D LIKE OBAMA TO KNOW:LOU DOBBS AND STEVE FORBES HAVE A MESSAGE FOR OBAMA:Former President Barack Obama embarked on an Asia trip this week, and Fox Business Lou Dobbs went off on Obama tonight for comments aimed at President Trump.
Our favorite comment goes to Steve Forbes who said, He doesn t get that he doesn t matter anymore.
Ouch!
Please see the video below of Nigel Evans who says what we d like to say to Obama.THE OBAMAS ARE TAKING OVER FOR THE CLINTONS THEY NEVER GO AWAY!Obama is obviously thinking he still matters He rudely took swipes at President Trump:While in India, Obama offered this advice: Think before you speak, think before you tweet.
He also invoked his own social media follower numbers compared to other people who use it more often.
Dobbs slammed Obama for his criticisms of his predecessor, and guest Steve Forbes said Obama doesn t realize he doesn t matter anymore.
Dobbs then said this: I think U.S.
Marshals should follow him, and any time he wants to go follow the President like he is, and behave I mean, this is just bad manners.
It s boorish, it s absurd, he doesn t realize how foolish he looks.
I mean, he should be brought back by the Marshals.
Isn t there some law that says presidents shouldn t be attacking sitting presidents?
OBAMA SHOULD TAKE ADVICE FROM BRITISH MP NIGEL EVANS: When we stand up in this country and attack Donald Trump in an unseemly way we re actually attacking the American people.
Conservative MP Nigel Evans tells those opposing Trump s state visit to get over it because he s the President of the United States .When you attack President Trump, you attack America