Mexico does not like Donald Trump, and for good reason.
He s accused their people of being rapists and killers, said that the country is deliberately sending their trash up to us to deal with, and we all know about the wall he wants to force Mexico to pay for.
One Mexican literary magazine, called Letras Libres, decided to illustrate what they think of Trump after all of this.
Their October issue features him on the cover, and it s not in a flattering light:En nuestro n mero de octubre: pic.twitter.com/xhMFnU9ttR Letras Libres (@Letras_Libres) September 28, 2016That stache is reminiscent of Hitler s mustache and reads fascista Americana, or, American fascist.
Suffice it to say, the editors at Letras Libres aren t thrilled with Trump, either.One expert on the history of fascism said that Trump s nonstop, offensive ethnic stereotyping, and his fear-the-foreigners rhetoric are textbook fascism.
Mexico is a foreign country.
Their people are foreigners, and Trump likes to claim they re stealing our jobs, both inside and outside our borders.
He hates them and he wants us to hate them.His ability to convince his loyal subjects that the country is in serious decline, when it isn t, is likewise textbook fascism.
He s got the entire world worried, confused as to how he could even have gotten this far in a U.S. election cycle, and just generally pissed the hell off.One thing he did recently was complain that Mexico forces us to pay a tax to sell products there, but they can sell their products here without paying the same tax.
Mexico has a value-added tax that American companies must pay when they sell products there, but Mexican companies have to pay that same tax to sell in their own country, even though they don t have to pay it here.
Our companies don t pay it here either.Trump listed that as one of his millions of reasons that NAFTA is needs to be torn up.
Trump doesn t know what he s talking about.
But that is, in fact, just another claim that Mexico is stealing from us, and must be stopped.In other words, Letras Libres sees Trump for what he is.
He may not quite be Hitler or Mussolini (yet, mostly because he s not in charge yet), but he s definitely got a very strong fascist streak.Featured image by Win McNamee/Getty Images