What would a speech from a modern Democrat be if they didn t include the LGBT crowd and embrace illegal aliens?
It s almost as if they were trying to divide our nation in order to gain votes.?
?The mayor of Kansas City, Kansas, in an address to the radical socialist organization National Council of La Raza, bragged that his city is no longer majority white and the city s schools now have students who speak 62 different languages.According to the 2010 U.S. Census, Kansas City, Kansas, was 52 percent white.But in a speech before the La Raza National Affiliates Luncheon earlier this week in Kansas City, Mayor Mark Holland boasted that only five years later his city s white population has been reduced to 40 percent.He seemed to suggest that La Raza was at least partly responsible for the progress.
But he also cited the refugee resettlement work of the United Nations and U.S. State Department for the city s transformation into a gleaming example of multicultural diversity.Kansas City, he said, is very proud of the work of National Council of La Raza.
Kansas City, Kansas, is a city with no ethnic majority.
Kansas City, Kansas, is 40 percent white, 28 percent Latino, and 26 percent African-American, Holland said.
Our school district speaks 62 different languages by the children every single day.
And Kansas City, Kansas, has a proud heritage of welcoming all people into the community, people who are not welcome in other places.
Latinos started coming with the Santa Fe railroad more than 100 years ago, to build the railroad, he said.
Another railroad, the Underground Railroad, brought African-Americans to Kansas.
If they could get across the river they were free and settled in a township of Quindero.
We continue to have a number of groups of refugees from around the world, he added, mentioning the large Hmong community that came in the 1970s and 80s following the Vietnam War.In recent years, the city has welcomed more refugees from other parts of the world, including Muslim Somalia, Afghanistan and Iraq, Hindus from Bhutan and Buddhists and Muslims from Burma.LGBTs welcome in KCKansas City has also thrown open its arms to the LGBT community, Holland said, even though most of the state of Kansas leans Republican.He said the city is the home of another persecuted group the Democrats.
The Democrats still have a foothold in Kansas City and we re very proud of that, said the Democrat mayor.
And because Democrats are in Wyandotte County, we welcome our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters and celebrate their life and their love, and always will.
Holland, an ordained Methodist minister, then went on the attack against any Christians who don t share his liberal theological views on same-sex marriage.He applauded the recent 5-4 Supreme Court decision that redefined marriage for all 50 states.
But we cannot let our guard down.
This religious freedom component, I believe is the Confederate Flag of religious bigotry, being flown long after the fact, Holland said.
As an ordained United Methodist pastor myself, I m offended to note, when they say Christians are offended by the ruling.
In fact, many of us Christians celebrate the ruling and the continued welcome and recognition of all people.
But I want to close by saying we just couldn t be more proud that La Raza is here in Kansas City and it s an honor to be able to greet you.
The U.S. State Department, working with the United Nations, has sent 2,371 international refugees to Kansas City, Kansas, since 2002.
The State Department s database does not include U.N. refugees dispersed throughout the U.S. before 2002 but the program has been ongoing in its current form since 1980.
The U.N. picks about 95 percent of the refugees sent to the U.S.
The State Department, working with nine major contractors such as the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, distributes about 70,000 refugees annually from mostly Third World nations into 190 U.S. cities and towns.U.N.
sends KC 2,371 refugees since 2002The refugees, unlike most other classifications of immigrants, immediately qualify for a smorgasbord of state and federal welfare benefits and are placed on a fast-track toward full citizenship, which is obtainable within five years.Since 2002 Kansas City has received 1,090 refugees from Burma, 577 from Bhutan, 190 from Somalia, 126 from Iraq, 47 from Liberia, 37 from Eritrea, 36 from Russia, 34 from Burundi, 33 from Afghanistan, 26 from Vietnam, 24 from Sudan, 18 from Uzbekistan, and 11 from Iran, according to State Department data.Via: WND