On Thursday, while Republican leadership was meeting with Donald Trump, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid unleashed on the GOP for pandering to their atrocious nominee.
The first thing Reid did when he spoke was to make sure that every American who watched his speech knows that the right-wing is marching lock-step with Donald Trump and their policies are perfectly aligned: So, McConnell has fully embraced Donald Trump.
As he said last week when Trump secured the Republican nomination, I quote, I have committed to supporting the nominee chosen by Republican voters, closed quote.
While speaking with reporters earlier this week the Republican leader sounded enthusiastic about Trump s chances in the general election.
I guess he should be giddy about a Trump presidency, Donald Trump is everything that the Republican leader and his party could ever want in a nomination.
That is absolutely, 100 percent spot-on.
We have been saying the same thing since the beginning.
The Republican base is filled with racist, misogynistic, Islamaphobic xenophobes who hate everyone who isn t a straight, white, Christian male.
After explaining how much the GOP loves Trump, he hit them about their Supreme Court obstruction.
Then Senator Reid pointed out how much the GOP hates women: Let s talk about Trump and women.
When they get together, they can talk about their policies about being anti-woman.
Since Sen. McConnell has so enthusiastically embraced Trump, we can only assume he agrees with Trump s view that women are dogs and pigs.
We can only assume that the Republican Leader is not repulsed by Donald Trump s vulgar behavior towards women.
Look at his New York Times story yesterday on his cavorting with Howard Stern and how they talked about women.
After all, the Republican Party has spent years blocking every substantive bill for American women.
Equal pay for equal work.
The Senator has tried to undermine women s health at every turn.
Trying to turn Planned Parenthood into a punching bag, even though millions and millions of women have been helped by Planned Parenthood.
The minority leader went on to say that McConnell must also agree with Trump s views on immigrants; after all, the GOP has been saying the same thing about them for years.
He hit Republicans for claiming they care about immigration control, but came within hours of shutting down the Department of Homeland Security.
The senator said that he can only assume that Mitch McConnell and the leadership are okay with Trump s shady business practices and ripping off hardworking Americans.Reid slammed the GOP for Trump s bankruptcies, their climate change bullshit, their horrible fiscal policies, Trump wanting to default on America s debt and a number of other things.
He spent more than eight minutes ripping Republican leadership and it was amazing.
It was also terrifying.
If Donald Trump is elected in November, this country is screwed.
Our children will be left with a mess of epic proportions and our older kids will probably be sent to war.
There is literally nothing good that could come with putting a member of the GOP in the White House.
So, remember to vote blue, no matter who.Watch Reid rip the GOP apart:Featured image via video screenshot