Speaking to Bill Maher about her participation in the Women s March in DC, Hanoi Jane Fonda remarked about her ability to use her celebrity to express her hate for Donald Trump to the masses.
Fonda told Maher that one of the benefits of being a celebrity is that you can bring attention to things that need to be addressed, she then went on to refer to President Trump as the Predator in Chief .
Of course, Hanoi Jane had no evidence whatsoever to back up such a hideous claim, yet, she made the claim anyhow.
As it turns out, Hanoi Jane actually knew about a certain sexual predator who actually assaulted a much younger actress only one year ago.
That younger actress was Rosana Arquette, who shared her horrible experience with the celebrity Jane Fonda.
Fonda, who bragged about having so much power to bring attention to important issues, did absolutely nothing about it.Hypocrite Hanoi Jane would rather stay mum about an actual sexual predator who was harming so many young women in her industry, than risk being ostracized in Hollywood.
It was better to just stick to the hate Trump script and get along with the other sickening hypocrites in Hollywood than to expose a serial sexual predator who should ve been stopped years ago if there weren t so many self-serving and shallow human beings running around Hollywood.
Watch:Hanoi Jane s very comfortable trashing President Trump who she believes can t hurt her career, but when it comes to the mega-Democrat donor, and Hollywood kingpin producer, Harvey Weinstein, all bets are off.. Daily Mail- Jane Fonda has admitted she found out last year that Harvey Weinstein had been sexually harassing Hollywood women and is ashamed she didn t speak up earlier.Watch: I only met Harvey when I was old," @Janefonda tells me.
"And Harvey goes for young, because that s more vulnerable.
pic.twitter.com/RbrjxCFU6w Christiane Amanpour (@camanpour) October 12, 2017More than 30 women have now come forward with allegations of sexual harassment against the Hollywood producer who was once described as the God of the film industry.The accusations, including from some of the world s most famous actresses, range from inappropriate massages to rape and date back nearly three decades.While Fonda says she wasn t harassed by Weinstein, she was told of his abuse last year by one of his victims.I found out about Harvey a year ago and I m ashamed I didn t say anything back then, she told CNN s Christiane Amanpour in an interview to air Friday.She was informed of Weinstein s transgressions by Rosanna Arquette one of the many women who have since spoken out against the movie mogul.
It came as a shock and a great disappointment, Fonda said.
I only met Harvey when I was old and Harvey goes for young because that s more vulnerable.
She added that she was proud of the victims for speaking out but it wasn t a unique or isolated case and specifically mentioned Bill Cosby s history.
This is not unique, this goes on at the most horrendous high levels, she said.
I m glad it s coming out, I m so proud of those fellow actors that are speaking up.
I know that it has taken a long time.
It is a very, very, very hard thing to do.
You don t get anything out of it as the person who has been victimized but it is important that it come out.
For the list of women who have come forward claiming to be victims of Dirty Harvey, go here.