You won t believe this judge and how he berates a family that was terrorized in a home invasion.
Can a three-year old help how she feels after this traumatic event?The reason Judge Olu Stevens of Louisville, Kentucky berated a family that was terrorized by two black home invaders in court and on Facebook will knock your socks off.
In all my years, I don t think I ve ever seen such an egregious example of race-card abuse.The judge was troubled and offended by the fact that a three year victim was so traumatized by a violent home invasion, she is now fearful of black males.Jordan and Tommy Gray s 3-year old daughter was watching SpongeBob when two black armed men broke into her home and robbed her family at gunpoint one of the perps pointing a gun in her father s face.Mom and dad honestly noted on the their victim impact statement that she is still afraid of black men 2 years later.
Whenever we are running errands, if we come across a black male, she holds me tight and begs me to leave, the mother said.
It has affected her friendships at school and our relationships with African-American friends.
Tommy Gray also wrote that since the crime, his daughter had been terrified of black males and that probation was not sufficient punishment for Gregory Wallace, 27, who had pleaded guilty to robbery.
If holding a little girl at gunpoint gets you probation, then our system is flawed, Gray said.But when Wallace was brought up for sentencing Feb. 4 in Jefferson Circuit Court, it was the parents, not Wallace, who suffered Judge Olu Stevens wrath.
I am offended.
I am deeply offended that they would be victimized by an individual and express some kind of fear of all black men, he said.
This little girl certainly has been victimized, and she can t help the way she feels, he said.
My exception is more with her parents and their accepting that kind of mentality and fostering those type of stereotypes.
The Grays were not in court as Stevens denounced their statements and granted probation to Wallace, whom he said deserved the opportunity to redeem himself.But they did see when Stevens condemned their statements again, in a post on Facebook.
Do three year olds form such generalized, stereotyped and racist opinions of others?
he wrote.
I think not.
Perhaps the mother had attributed her own views to her child as a manner of sanitizing them.
That a supposedly unbiased judge would ask such an ridiculously biased leading question does not speak well of him.It s obviously true that three year olds generally don t develop generalized, stereotyped and racist opinions (as if you could call her fears those things) on their own.
This young tot had a little help She was traumatized when a couple of black home invaders terrorized her family.
Is this judge stupid?The family is obviously unhappy that the ordeal has negatively impacted their daughter s view of blacks.
How did he miss that?
It s why they listed it it on the impact statement.Later Stevens said, I wasn t criticizing the victims, I was criticizing a statement that I thought was a generalization against an entire race of people.
He was criticizing the feelings of a three year old victim of a crime.
Shame on him.
#SMDHMeanwhile Wallace and his accomplice, Marquis McAfee, both 27, were arrested about three weeks after the robbery.
Both pleaded guilty and McAfee, who was on probation for a prior crime, was sentenced to 10 years in prison, which he is serving.Assistant Commonwealth s Attorney Richard Elder objected to probation for Wallace, who pleaded guilty to a 20-year sentence, saying he was guilty as hell and put a gun in that little girl s father s face.
Via: nice deb