After the passing of conservative Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Republicans have been refusing to even welcome any possibility of a replacement.
They don t seem to care that President Obama is bound by the Constitution to nominate someone.
And considering Obama istill is, and will be the president for almost another whole year, Republicans are also bound by the Constitution to consider the nominee.Throwing this very obvious fact back in their Republican faces is none other than Senator Elizabeth Warren from the great state of Massachusetts.
She said it is shocking that they are unwilling to entertain the idea of a new Justice clearly caving to those on the extreme right.
However, also noting that this refusal to do their job is not new.
Warren stated in a scathing rebuke of their incompetence: The message from Senate Republicans is crystal clear: Forget the Constitution.
Their response to one of the most solemn and consequential tasks that our government performs, the confirmation of a Supreme Court justice, will be to pretend that that nominee and President Obama himself simply do not exist.
Cannot see them.
Cannot hear them.
Then pointing out how it has been the goal of Republicans to block pretty much everything President Obama has want to accomplish since his first day in office, Warren says: Since the first day of the Obama presidency, Republican senators have bowed to extremists who reject his legitimacy and abuse the rules of the Senate in an all-out effort to cripple his administration and to paralyze the federal courts.
Warren slams them for going against the oath they swore to uphold the Constitution of the United States.
She goes on to say: Republican extremists aren t voting against individuals based on a good-faith judgment about a specific person.
No, they are blocking votes wholesale in order to keep those jobs vacant and undermine the government itself.
Driving the point home, she says:No matter how much it damages the nation, no matter how much it undermines the courts, no matter whether it cripples the government or lays waste to our Constitution, Senate Republicans do pretty much everything they can to avoid acknowledging the legitimacy of our democratically elected president For too long, the Republicans in the Senate have wanted to have it both ways: They want to feed the ugly lies and nullify the Obama presidency while also claiming that they can govern responsibly Candidates motivated by bigotry and resentment, candidates unable to govern, candidates reflecting the same extremism that has been nursed along for seven years right here in the United States Senate, are on the verge of winning the Republican party s nomination for president If it is true that some Republican senators are finally ready to stand up to the extremism that denies the legitimacy of this president and of the Constitution, I say to you, do your job Vote for a Supreme Court nominee.
Warren also made sure all those unconstitutional Republicans sitting in front of her new that President Obama was elected in 2008 and 2012 by an overwhelming democratically elected majority, and by nominating someone for the Supreme Court, he is fulfilling the will of the people.However, here s the nail in the coffin: If you want to stop extremism in your party, you can start by showing the American people that you respect the president of the United States and the Constitution enough to do your job.
Bravo, Senator Warren.
Bravo!!!
Featured image via video screen capture