Bill Penzey, the owner of Penzeys Spices, wrote two separate letters on the Penzeys Spices Facebook page, accusing all Trump s voters of openly embracing racism.
Isn t it funny how liberals think they can use the most hateful and divisive language against fellow Americans, then excuse their open hate as an act of love or unity?
We re asking Trump supporters and anyone who disagrees with a company owner calling half of America racists to BOYCOTT Penzeys Spices.
(List of states where Penzeys Spice stores are located can be found below)Here is an excerpt from his first letter:Please give us a moment to share something we hope you will find very valuable.Our customers come from all walks of life.
The kindness of cooks knows no borders or divides.
In the aftermath of the election, seeing the intentional damage inflicted on so many outside the white heterosexual male world, we raised our voice.
We felt we had to.
We did this because we are Penzeys.
The Spice business is so intertwined with history that it s not really possible to have one without the other.
It became clear to us that we are now in a moment history will long have its eyes upon.
For the sake of our customers, and for the sake of future generations, we felt the time had come to stand on the right side of history.And while the reasons for why we took a stand might be specific to our unique outlook, what we learned actually applies to all commerce in the United States.
What we learned is that President-elect Donald Trump has no real support.
Voters, sure, but no constituency.
Running a campaign on that horrible-terrible-woman who should be locked up, while at the same time working to raise fear of minorities among white voters with limited access to education, clearly achieved its goal.
But none of it left Americans with any sense of connection to the candidate they actually voted for.Willing to take a hit for what is right, we did what we did.
In the two weeks since, online sales are up 59.9%, gift box sales up 135%.
And we didn t have a catalog arrive in this window this year, while last year we had 1.1 million!
Yes, maybe for the moment we have lost 3% of our customers because of the so-called right wing firestorm.
And, yes, they send emails of rage, and ALL CAPS, and bad language with the hope of creating the perception that they are bigger than they really are.
But what we learned is that, in terms of retail spending, Donald Trump simply has no one supporting his views for America.
He has no constituency.In this moment there is finally the real chance to unite our nation in our shared rejection of sexism, homophobia, and racism.
This is your chance to stand up for America s values and make January a tent pole in your company s history.
Opportunities to do the right thing at the time when doing the right thing makes all the difference come once in a lifetime.
Make your history proud.For entire letter, see Facebook post below: