President Obama made his final appearance as the sitting president at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation s annual dinner, and made it very clear he will not be sitting on the sidelines for the coming election.The President said, we have something to teach him in response to Trump s claims that black voters have nothing to lose so they should vote for him.President Obama: "You want to give me a good send off?
Go vote!"
https://t.co/2TggidWndx https://t.co/iCke8GsuCo CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) September 18, 2016From the White House press pool report: But our progress is on the ballot.
Tolerance is on the ballot.
Democracy is on the ballot.
Justice is on the ballot.
Good schools are on the ballot.
Ending mass incarceration, that is on the ballot right now.
And there is one candidate who will advance those things, and there is another candidate who s defining principle, the central theme of his candidacy is opposing those things, Obama said.
I will consider it a personal insult if African Americans sit out this election.
If you want to give mea a good send off, go vote!
Hope is on the ballot and fear is on the ballot too.
Obama also spoke about Republican efforts to block voter turnout by requiring obstacles like voter ID, noting, We are the only democracy in the world actively trying to discourage voting.
Obama also joked with the crowd about Donald Trump finally admitting that he was born in the United States: I mean ISIL, North Korea, poverty, climate change-none of those things weighed on my mind like the validity of my birth certificate.
According to the White House press pool, supporters lined up along the street chanted four more years as the President and First Lady left the venue.Trump has faced huge obstacles in attempting to attract black voters to his campaign.
Already skeptical of Republicans, Trump has a history that turns them off.
In addition to being part of a redlining effort in his father s real estate business that tried to keep blacks out of apartments, Trump also called for the execution of the Central Park Five after it was proven they were innocent, and promoted the false racist birther conspiracy up until a few months ago even after President Obama had long since provided his birth certificate.Featured image via screen capture