Two people were injured during a shoe-sale shootout at the Brooklyn Shopping Center, in Madison, Minnesota on Saturday.According to witnesses, there was an altercation between customers who were waiting in line to purchase a pair of Air Jordans, which were on sale at the mall s Foot Locker.The New York Daily News reports that about sixty customers turned out for the shoe sale, but the store only had ten pairs of Air Jordans in stock.A brawl that apparently started after someone was accused of cutting in front of another customer in line, escalated into a shooting that injured two people.
There was a little altercation over the shoes about someone in line.
It was a lot of commotion.
I don t know who was shooting, but somebody started shooting like six times, said Latoya Sims, another witness to the shooting.The little altercation quickly escalated into a life-or-death scenario.
According to police, at least a dozen shell casings were collected from the scene.
It was absolutely crazy, Latrissa Favorite, who was at Foot Locker at the time of the shooting, told WCCO-TV.
I heard police screaming Get down, get down.
Favorite went on to say, It makes you sad for the people and the mentality and mind frame that we have, that we have to kill somebody.
That nobody s life is valued anymore.
Saturday s shoe-sale shootout is just one of many recent incidents in which a gun was used as a means of settling what should have been a minor dispute.In January, Addicting Info reported on the deaths of a father and son at a gun store in Mississippi.
The pair was killed after an argument over a $25 repair bill escalated into a shootout between two fathers and their two sons.In December we reported on a shootout between a Florida pastor and a church maintenance worker, that took place inside the Living Water Fellowship Church in Osceola.
The maintenance worker was seriously injured during the gunfire exchange, which began after the pastor threatened to fire him.These kinds of incidents are much more common than you might think.Research conducted last year by Duke University Professor, Jeffrey Swanson, found that the vast majority of the 11,000 or so gun homicides that take place every year in the U.S., happen during an argument.As this detailed report from NCR points out, America s gun problem is twofold.First, there are a growing number of Americans who have serious anger issues.
Second, there are a growing number of Americans with access to guns at all times, and in almost all places.When you combine angry people with accessible weapons, people get killed during trivial arguments.According to police, both victims of Saturday s mall shootout were treated for injuries that were not life threatening.They were lucky.
Sadly, at least 11,000 U.S. citizens will not be fortunate enough to walk away from a shooting this year.Watch the video below, courtesy of WCCO in Minnesota.Image credit: video screen capture via WCCO in Minnesota