During a Cruzin to the Caucus campaign event in Iowa on Thursday night, Ted Cruz was questioned by a young woman who is concerned that she may be deported if Cruz is elected president.According to the Washington Post, Ofelia Valdez is a 30-year-old woman, who works as a special needs social worker and activist.
Her parents brought her into the United States when she was a child illegally.
She tells Cruz that she is currently safe from being deported because of President Obama s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.
The program mandates that homeland security focus their attention on high priority individuals who have come into the United States illegally.
High priority targets are people who have a violent criminal record.
DACA makes it so that government agencies are not wasting resources going after people who more than likely were brought here by their parents, and have lived here for most of their lives.
I think of myself as a part of this community and you know, first day of presidency, you decide to deport, you know, people like myself, you know, it s just very difficult, said Valdez.Cruz has vowed to reverse the executive orders made by the President during the Obama administration.
It doesn t seem to matter what those executive orders are, Obama made them so they are bad.
So Cruz responds, essentially telling the woman that he would deport her, should he become president.
If you re a DACA recipient, you were brought here illegally, and violating the law has consequences.
One of the problems of our broken immigration system is that it is creating human tragedies and there are human tragedies when people break the law, Cruz says.Cruz then goes on to list a number of other nations that he seems to think have a singular, hegemonic system for immigration, that represents the entire world.
This is met with thunderous applause from the other attendees at the event.You can watch a video from the event below.Featured Image Credit: Screenshot via YouTube