Former Clinton Labor Secretary and current Berkeley economics professor Robert Reich has long been one of Donald Trump s most vocal opponents and he thinks Trump could be done.
On Thursday, he took to Twitter to outline four ways in which Trump could already be impeached and he might just be beginning, at least according to Reich.Reich, along with others, is saying that Trump s unsubstantiated claims that Obama wiretapped him are enough to impeach him.Reich also cited Article 1 Section 9 of the Constitution, which forbids government officials from taking things of value from foreign governments.
Trump seems to be looking at the Office of the Presidency as just another way to increase his personal wealth.
He has refused to divest himself from his businesses, even while putting his children in charge.
Even before he was inaugurated, foreign diplomats began to see spending money at Trump hotels as a way to cozy up to the new American leader.
Almost as soon as he took office, his Florida resort and weekend White House, Mar-A-Lago, doubled its initiation fee from $100,000 to a whopping $200,000.
But the most egregious offense was announced on Wednesday, when the Associated Press announced that China s Trademark Office gave preliminary approval to 38 new Trump trademarks.The third way Trump could be impeached today, according to Reich, is his violation of the First Amendment, which bars any law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.'
Trump violated this with his Muslim ban, which singles out a religion.The fourth is also a violation of the First Amendment, which also bars abridging the freedom of the press.
Trump consistently labels the media as fake and even as the enemy.
They are shut out of press conferences and reporters are escorted out for daring to ask tough questions.While the evidence isn t yet completely in, it s looking more and more like the ties between Trump and Russia are treason, at least according to Reich, who says: Article III Section 3 of the Constitution defines treason against the United States as adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort.'
Reich argues that Trump s apparent collusion with Russians helped him win the election.By my count, there are now four grounds to impeach Trump.
The fifth seems to be on its way.
pic.twitter.com/PfAw0a0hfU Robert Reich (@RBReich) March 9, 2017Reich isn t delusional enough to believe that impeachment will happen under the current GOP Congress.
His goal is to flip the Congress in 2018, which means people have to stay engaged and stay aware.
Of course, that s why Trump tries to delegitimize the media.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images