Donald Trump recently attended a conservative, black church in Detroit in an effort to reach out to black voters.
As expected, it was an embarrassment, and the black community was not fooled by Trump s pandering photo-op.Perhaps one of the mast damning of all criticism comes from across the board religious leaders, all of them black, from the Detroit metropolitan are.
They all had the same message for Trump we aren t fooled.The Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity penned a scathing letter signed by representatives of 10 different Christian denominations on Saturday, blasting the opportunism of the Trump campaign and its brazen language and exploitation:We have been avoided and overlooked in regards to the upcoming appearance of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump in Detroit Racism, bigotry, misogyny, hate speech, sexism, divisiveness, threats, a call to harm, discrimination, bullying, and fearmongering have no place in the White House in the greatest country in the world.In addition to the Baptist leadership, representatives from the Metropolitan Organizing Strategy Enabling Strength; the Michigan chapter of Church of God in Christ; the Evangelical Lutheran, and Episcopal Church all signed on.In total, these religious organizations represent over 200 African-American churches in southeastern Michigan alone.The president of the Baptist Pastor s council, Rev.
Lawrence Glass, blasted Trump as an insult to the African Americans and minorities, saying his attacks on Muslims, immigrants and Hispanics.Glass also pointed out that Trump has no history of helping minorities, of going to the inner city to help out people of color He has done absolutely nothing, and He wants us to believe him He must think we re really, really naive and ignorant of his past practices.
Although these churches and their leaders have a huge disdain for Trump, they have said that doesn t necessarily mean they re all in for Hillary Clinton.The chairman of Detroit Ecumenical Ministers, the Rev.
Horace Sheffield, accused Trump of using blacks as political props.
Trump and his campaign thought they could trick black voters into supporting him by appealing to their religious convictions.
Unlike the rabid, faux Christian evangelicals represented by people like Billy Graham and Michele Bachmann, black religious leaders actually follow by example.
And Trump certainly does not fit their mold.Here s an important reminder for Trump: the most religious group in America are black women.
Black women are also Democratic voters, and for good reason.
They aren t so easily tricked by a predatory white nationalist.Another Trump pivot gone horribly wrong.Featured image via Mario Tama/Getty Images