Donald Trump threw a temper tantrum on Saturday morning because states are refusing to cooperate with his bullshit voter fraud panel.As you may recall, Trump created the panel in response to losing the popular vote, which he insists he won because he claims nearly 3 million people voted illegally.
Even Republican secretaries of state know Trump is full of shit, but that s not stopping him from pursuing an investigation anyway.But so far, the panel has turned up nothing.
That s because voter fraud is exceedingly rare in this country.
In fact, the panel has so little to do that members are requesting that the panel take a look at Russian interference in the 2016 Election, the same Russian interference that helped Trump win.And as it turns out, states are not enthused about handing over voter information to a panel designed specifically to persecute people.In fact, 28 states are refusing to cooperate with the panel s request for the information.According to The Hill, a letter signed by commission vice chairman and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), asked for names, addresses, birth dates and party affiliations of registered voters in each state.
It also sought felony convictions, military statuses, the last four digits of Social Security numbers and voting records dating back to 2006.
That s a hell of a lot of information that most voters would see as a violation of privacy if the information were to be released.
It seriously sounds like such information would be used to target Democratic voters.The refusal to cooperate sent Trump into a hissy fit in which he actually had the gall to refer to the panel as distinguished and accused the 28 states of having something to hide.
This coming from a man who is desperately trying to stop the Russia investigation and has repeatedly refused to release his tax returns.Numerous states are refusing to give information to the very distinguished VOTER FRAUD PANEL.
What are they trying to hide?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 1, 2017Twitter users were quick to humiliate Trump for this tweet.Trump thinks he could just add the word distinguished to a tweet and make it so.
There is nothing distinguished about this panel.
It s BS!
TheOmnipotentJake (@JakeVandyne) July 1, 2017No one wants to give up their personal information to an incompetent government.#NiceTryTrump val broeksmit (@BikiniRobotArmy) July 1, 2017 Very distinguished makes it sound like you are talking about a Nigerian prince selling viagra via email.
Dani Bostick (@danibostick) July 1, 2017#VeryDistinguished like a pathetic man on a gold plated toilet.
Phone in hand.
Pepper (@JulieFromNC) July 1, 2017They are trying to keep your corrupt administration away from their voter data so you and Putin can t do even more harm.
Khary Penebaker (@kharyp) July 1, 2017Funny how quickly republicans forget about states rights when they control the federal government.
Tony Webster (@webster) July 1, 2017You do know that many REPUBLICAN controlled states are refusing to turn over data right?
Jonathan Boucher (@jonbouch) July 1, 2017Trump s panel is nothing more than a joke designed to stroke his own ego.
He lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes.
He s a loser and he needs to get over it.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images