Some, try as they might, to say that Hillary Clinton will be soft on Wall Street when the opposite is actually true.
She knows just how much Wall Street greed had to do with the recession that began with the housing crisis in 2007.
She also knows what we need to do to prevent such a crash from ever happening again.
One also can t just throw blanket blame at any one company or bank or lender.
The crash was a perfect storm of greed and taking advantage of those who simply didn t know better.Here are Hillary Clinton s remarks from December 5, 2007: Now, who s exactly to blame for the housing crisis?
Well, that s always a question that the press and people ask and I think there s plenty of blame to go around.Responsibility belongs to mortgage lenders and brokers, who irresponsibly lowered underwriting standards, pushed risky mortgages, and hid the details in the fine print.Responsibility belongs to the Administration and to regulators, who failed to provide adequate oversight, and who failed to respond to the chorus of reports that millions of families were being taken advantage of.Responsibility belongs to the rating agencies, who woefully underestimated the risks involved in mortgage securities.And certainly borrowers share responsibility as well.
Homebuyers who paid extra fees to avoid documenting their income should have known they were getting in over their heads.
Speculators who were busy buying two, three, four houses to sell for a quick buck don t deserve our sympathy.But finally, responsibility also belongs to Wall Street, which not only enabled but often encouraged reckless mortgage lending.
Mortgage lenders didn t have balance sheets big enough to write millions of loans on their own.
So Wall Street originated and packaged the loans that common sense warned might very well have ended in collapse and foreclosure.
Some people might say Wall Street only helped to distribute risk.
I believe Wall Street shifted risk away from people who knew what was going on onto the people who did not.Wall Street may not have created the foreclosure crisis, but Wall Street certainly had a hand in making it worse.
If anyone would bother to take the time to read her proposals to make sure a crash never happens again they d soon realize Hillary s not about to let Wall Street get away with anything.
Here are her plans:She s also making sure to hold those who break the rules accountable:And if you re still not convinced, feel free to read a more comprehensive version of her plans HERE.We need comprehensive reform.
We need solutions that will no only be strong, but long-lasting and unable to be manipulated by those still trying to scam others.
Listening to people go after Hillary and say that she d be weak on Wall Street is not only misguided, but simply wrong.
Even Elizabeth Warren supports Clinton s plan.Now, this isn t to put any other candidate down, or try to convince anyone who to vote for.
This is simply just laying down the facts.Featured image via Instagram