Donald Trump has his cute little nickname for Crooked Hillary Clinton, but soon-to-be former Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller seems to have one-upped him in terms of douchebaggery.
On Tuesday, Miller tweeted a Pennsylvania poll showing Clinton down a point or, as he lovingly called her, Cunt.
Go Trump go, the deplorable-escaped-from-the-basket proudly declared to punctuate his awful tweet.Texas ag commissioner Sid Miller just called Hillary Clinton the c word.
#txlege pic.twitter.com/zkxsEo5FeI Edgar Walters (@ewaltersTX) November 1, 2016As people began to retweet this bit of awfulness, the elected official and member of Trump s agricultural advisory committee quickly removed the tweet.
Rather than take personal responsibility, Miller claimed his account was hacked.
Tweeted from the same account he was clearly in possession of, Miller tweeted @MillerForTexas HAS BEEN HACKED.
The disgusting re-tweet has been removed and we have changed all account passwords.
Be advised.
When they realized that this was not a retweet that was deleted, and the lie would otherwise not work, Miller removed that claim and replaced it with another.
Forgetting again that this was not a retweet, Miller again claimed it was a retweet a staffer made.The text seems to have originally appeared on noted white supremacist Twitter account @TheRickyVaughn, with the exception of Go Trump Go which was added by Miller, the staffer, or whomever.
In other words, the person who tweeted it had time to read the tweet and add to it, so it was well known what was posted.
They found some interesting poll numbers that included some derogatory language that I would never use, Miller said.
When I found out about that, I told them to take it down immediately.
When confronted with the fact that this was clearly not a retweet, Miller was full of excuses that simply do not work.
I can assure you I did not post that, he said.
Maybe the staffers took a screen shot and posted that.
It was not a screenshot either.
I m sorry to anybody out there, he said.
That s not something I would condone or knowingly do.
Just last week, though, while condemning Clinton for not always posting her own words on social media, he was firm that the tweets on his account were absolutely his own thoughts and the words his own meaning he took credit for this tweet in advance.Miller and millions like him will be voting on November 8.
Make sure you re out there too.Featured image via screengrab