White privilege is a thing.
There are many white people who will deny this all day long, though.
They think that once slavery was over and Jim Crow laws were abolished, that racism was over.
Even the white people who acknowledge white privilege often forget to check said privilege.
It s infuriating to white people who actually get it, and especially to people of color.
However, it is always refreshing when a white person speaks out about it intelligently, and that is just what Louis CK did on an appearance on Jay Leno s nightly comedy program.It all started with Leno asking how Louis CK s kids were doing.
Louis CK responded: My kids are good.
I mean, on paper they re great.
They re two little white girls in America.
Sometimes I look at it that way.
I look at them like, you can t say anything.
You re doing awesome.
Just boiler plate great lives.
He then goes on to talk about giving one of his daughters bubble gum flavored medicine, and how she said: Ew!
and he told her Fuck you ew!
You can t say ew!
I m sorry.
It s medicine.
Most children don t have medicine.
Most children in the world they get sick, they die on a rock with a bear eating them.
That s how they handle it.
After a bit more banter in the little white girls in America vein, Louis CK then goes on to say that you can t take people s historical context away from them.
He continues: White people are always like, come on, it wasn t us!
Like they want black people to forget everything.
Like, every year, white people add 100 years to how long ago slavery was.
I ve heard educated white people say slavery was 400 years ago.
No it very wasn t. It was 140 years ago.
That s two 70 year old ladies living and dying back to back.
That s how recently you could buy a guy.
The comedic truth continues, and it is truly refreshing to hear a straight white man recognize just how privileged he is because of being born, well, a straight white man.If only the rest of white America was this enlightened.Watch this must-see clip below, via Shaun King s Twitter:3 brilliant minutes from Louis CK on white privilege.
Wrapping ugly truths is comedy is a gift.https://t.co/bND8oBTMN4 Shaun King (@ShaunKing) May 20, 2016Featured image via video screen capture