What a brave boy and what a sad world we live in where adults would allow such a beautiful child to be repeatedly tortured by classmates, without stepping in and preventing it from happening.
At the very least, our children should know that they are safe in the classroom, on the playground, and in the cafeteria, where they attend school.
Students who are being bullied in school should know that they will be protected by teachers and staff who should be paying attention to the children who need them most.
Where was the lunch staff when this young boy was being humiliated and bullied by classmates?
Fat.
Gay.
Or just different from the crowd.
These are the reasons children are being bullied sometimes to death in America s schools, with at least 14 students committing suicide in the past year alone.
ABCKnox News The anti-bullying video of a Union County middle schooler went viral over the weekend, garnering the attention of the Tennessee Titans and the University of Tennessee Vols football teams.Kimberly Jones posted the video of her son, Keaton, on her Facebook page Friday shortly after 12:30 p.m. She said she had just picked Keaton up from school because he was too afraid to go to lunch as a result of bullying.
For the record, Keaton asked to do this AFTER he had me pick him up AGAIN because he was afraid to go to lunch, Jones wrote in her Facebook post.
My kids are by no stretch perfect, and at home, he s as all boy as they come, but by all accounts, he s good at school.
Talk to your kids.
I ve even had friends of mine tell me (their) kids were only nice to him to get him to mess with people.
We all know how it feels to want to belong, but only a select few know how it really feels not to belong anywhere, she wrote.In the video, Keaton, crying in the passenger seat, describes having milk poured on him and ham put down his clothes.
Just out of curiosity, why do they bully?
What s the point of it?
Keaton began.
Why do you find joy in taking innocent people and finding a way to be mean to em?
It s not okay.
Keaton said kids at school make fun of his nose, call him ugly and tell him he has no friends.Watch:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.11'; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));This is a friend of mine Kimberly Jones son KRJ.
He is such an amazing little boy and has a very big heart and loves Posted by Angie Monroe on Saturday, December 9, 2017Jones, in another social media post on Oct. 18, described one such incident.
At a birthday party, she wrote, another boy said he knew Keaton by his scars, one that goes all the way across his face.
Jones wrote that her son was born with a tumor.
It s not OK!
Keaton cried in his video.
People that are different don t need to be criticized about it.
It s not their fault.
But if you are made fun of, don t let it bother you.
They suck I guess.
Hard.
But it will probably get better one day.
Within hours, the post had thousands of views.
By Saturday night it had been viewed more than 11 million times and shared by nearly 250,000 people.Sean Hannity saw the viral video on Twitter and asked for the name of the principal and the school where the repetitive bullying of Keaton Jones was taking place, so he could personally call and fix this .
Hannity also asked for anyone who knew the parents to help him contact them, so he could have them on his show, so they could share their story with others.
If someone can get to me the name of the school, the principal, school board members i will gladly make the calls myself and fix this.
Also if anyone knows Keaton and his parents, i will gladly fly them to NYC to be my guest & visit Fox News.
https://t.co/uFyp2r2Yn7 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) December 10, 2017