Ann Coulter is one of those blatantly offensive conservatives that most of us wish would just go away, but she continues to find a way to make herself seem somewhat relevant by spewing inflammatory remarks and hate speech on news shows.On Friday, Bill Maher had Coulter on Real Time, where she probably thought she was going to succeed in spreading her ignorant views and praise for Donald Trump.
But Maher s show took another turn instead, Coulter was mercilessly bashed by one of Maher s other guests, sex columnist Dan Savage.Savage, being more than familiar with Coulter s anti-immigration stance (which basically makes Trump her political soulmate), called Coulter out and brutally exposed the stupidity behind her beliefs.
He asked: Why do we want to throw these 11 million people out of the country?
They contribute more to our economy than they take out; they pay more in taxes than they receive in services; illegal immigrants commit fewer crimes per capita Coulter cut Savage off, interrupting him with made up facts even though she claimed that his points were untrue and false facts.
She added: Not only are they false facts, but if they are true facts then you need to go and elect people who will change the laws.
Savage didn t let up.
Referring to Trump s obsession with building a wall at the U.S.-Mexico border, Savage fired back and took Coulter s smug smile right off her face when he said, But your rationale for building this wall is bullsh*t. Coulter argued, No, the rationale is that he [would be] the commander-in-chief, he protects the borders.
Those are the laws.
Savage also made sure to rip the GOP as a whole just as hard as he railed against Coulter.
Earlier in the conversation, Coulter made a comment that Savage should be the spokesman for Hillary Clinton because he was so judgmental and critical of the Republican Party.
She once again passing off lies as facts, said, That s gonna be a big hit with the American people who are overwhelmingly voting for Trump.
Savage didn t sugarcoat the truth for Coulter.
He countered: No, the GOP base which is overwhelmingly rubes, idiots, sexists, racists are overwhelmingly voting for Trump.
Truer words have never been said.You can watch Savage and Coulter s tense exchange below:Featured image is a screenshot