I m a mom who grew up in Romeo, MI., the same town where Robert Ritchie, aka Kid Rock was born and raised.
I am also a huge Kid Rock fan.
I remember sitting across from his entire family in church every Sunday.
His mother was my youngest sister s religious education teacher.
He was raised in the country until he left to make his music way in Mt.
Clemens, MI, located just outside of Detroit.
It was there he met his girlfriend (who is black) and had a child with her.
He gained full custody of his son and sent him to a Catholic school near my current home.
He is one of the kindest, most generous and selfless musicians in the business.
He is now the latest target of Al Sharpton and his shakedown organization, NAN.Kid Rock s philosophy is: Help your neighbor first.
Here are a few examples of his generosity:When is the last time Al Sharpton did anything to bring jobs to Americans or to help give back to NYC?
Kid Rock doesn t just talk about providing jobs for Americans, he puts his money where his mouth is:Here is Kid Rock donating a home to an injured veteran in a Detroit suburb:While Al Sharpton has made it his goal to assist Barack Obama in the division our nation with his #BlackLivesMatter campaign of racism, hate and violence, Kid Rock has been busy working to ensure we take care of our veterans when they return through a campaign called #VeteransMatter:And lastly how many times has Al Sharpton jumped on an airplane and headed overseas during Christmas to help lift the spirits of our troops while they spend their holidays away from their families in the desert?
(Brief language warning.
)Compare Kid Rock s service to our military, kids with disabilities and to the city of Detroit to Al Sharpton s service to his community:Americans need to stand up to this shakedown artist and let this two-bit, tax cheating extortionist know we are not going to let him define the direction of our great nation.
Call GM and let them know how much you appreciate them sponsoring Kid Rock, a man who does so much for our military and for those less fortunate at:Tony Cervone Senior Vice President, Global Communications Phone 313-667-3437 Mobile 313-920-8175 tony.cervone@gm.comor: Juli Huston-Rough News Operations Director Phone 313-665-3183 Mobile 313-549-6977 julie.huston-rough@gm.comBreitbart News Detroit members of Al Sharpton s National Action Network now plan to pressure General Motors to cut ties with musician Kid Rock over his use of the Confederate flag at concerts, and the company is hearing them out.Legally named Robert James Ritchie, Kid Rock may hail from the Detroit, MI area, but his love for southern music and culture is strong, and he has used imagery of the rebel symbol at shows throughout his career.Members of the Detroit chapter of the NAN began protesting a Kid Rock exhibit at a local museum over the matter earlier this month.
The rocker finally responded to the activists through a statement to Fox News host Megyn Kelly last week, simply saying: Kiss my a**.
The group s members demanded Ritchie renounce the flag, but now that it has become apparent he has no plans to do so, the NAN plans to hit him where it hurts: though a sponsor.According to the Detroit Free Press, members of the group, which is helmed by Rev.
Charles Williams II, plan to meet with Detroit-based General Motors, whose Chevrolet brand is sponsoring Kid Rock s summer tour.
We will be furthering our call to ask GM to remove their support of funds for Kid Rock s tour, said Williams.A statement released to the paper by GM confirmed the meeting would take place later this week on Tuesday: We have been in touch with Reverend Williams, and representatives from Chevrolet will be meeting with him later this week to better understand his concerns.
We need to let some open and constructive dialogue occur as a first step, and we ll go from there.
Rev.
Williams also told the Associated Press Tuesday that the best resolution is for GM to pull their sponsorship.
He added: The entire civil rights community is ready to open up a campaign on this issue if General Motors doesn t want to take responsibility on this bad business issue.
Williams was previously quoted as saying, the hometown hero who is a zero with the Confederate flag, while the group s political director Sam Riddle asked, How in the hell can Kid Rock represent Detroit and wave that flag just generating millions and millions in ticket sales a flag that represents genocide to most of Detroit?
Kid Rock received the Great Expectations Award from the Detroit NAACP in 2011, and called the accolade by far the coolest award I ve received.
After receiving the honor, the artist responded to similar protests from the NAACP, and told the Free Press waving the flag was not about hatred or being a racist.
I like Southern rock music, and a lot of people died under that flag for beliefs they had, right or wrong, he said.
But it stands for rebel, and my love of Southern rock.