David Duke is a former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard who also happens to be one of the most famous white supremacists in modern history.
He is also, like many white supremacists, anti-semites, and other assorted despicable bigots, a Donald Trump supporter.
Today, as we all know by now, Hillary Clinton issued a blistering takedown of Trump in a brilliant speech delivered in Reno, Nevada.
She indicted the so-called alt-right movement which is really nothing more than the new white supremacy as well as Donald Trump himself for being nothing more than bigots, and bringing their bigotry into the mainstream via this presidential election.
Well, of course, David Duke was most unhappy with this, and decided to issue a statement defending the alt-right which of course means, at this point, that he is also defending Trump.Duke talked to Buzzfeed s Andrew Kaczynski and said:Kaczynski went on to tweet:Bottom line, the white nationalists trust Trump and don't find his condemnations of them to be sincere.
andrew kaczynski (@BuzzFeedAndrew) August 26, 2016He s right, of course.
They know that Trump is just doing what he has to do to get elected.
He is their guy.
They know that all of his pathetic and disingenuous attempts to reach out to communities of color is really just lip service; hell, he isn t even actually talking to communities of color.
He s trying to assure more mainstream white people that he isn t quite as racist as they thought, and that they should still vote for him, because he s still their man.Trump s campaign has completely embraced the lunatic fringe, and they are welcoming him with open arms.
No matter how much his campaign staff tries to soften his bombastic tone and gets him to read off of a teleprompter, the truth is already out there, via not just Trump s own words, associations, and actions, but also via the full throated endorsement and defense of Klan leaders and other white supremacist leaders like David Duke.GOP, if you ve any sense at all, you ll kick ALL of these racists out of your party.
You can t just say you aren t racists.
You have to prove it.
Take the hit this election, and reject Trumpism before it is too late.Featured image via SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images