Recently, North Carolina passed dangerous legislation that blocked anti-discrimination ordinances.
Many have expressed fears that the new legislation, which arose in response to the city of Charlotte taking steps to ensure that the LGBT community would enjoy equal protection under the law, would embolden the more extreme segments of the alleged Christian population to act out their hateful fantasies.
Unfortunately, any who feared this may be the case were correct.On Tuesday, one group of Christian bigots proved the need to establish anti-discrimination laws when they left a chilling note for a lesbian waitress at a Charlotte restaurant a death threat in the form of a Bible verse.Alexandra Judd, a waitress at Zada Janes, says that the group of stand-up, God-fearing individuals showed their Christian love by leaving the disturbing note in lieu of a tip.
Instead of $3.45, the customary 15% tip on a $23 order, they simply wrote Lev.
20:13.
This verse is special among religious bigots, and it is often used to allow them to express their hatred and even threaten people while excusing their actions by claiming they are simply exercising their First Amendment right to religious expression.
If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination, the verse reads.
They shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
In other words, the group of loving Christians told the waitress she should be executed something that might land anyone else in jail if they said that sort of thing to a random person on the street.
But, since they were just expressing their religious freedom, this sort of horrific statement typically gets a pass in our society.
Praying for you, the Christians added at the bottom a statement that often accompanies this sort of violent and hateful expression.
I never expected a hateful gesture like this, Judd said.
I ve had a guest leave me a pamphlet to their church as a tip one time, but I didn t feel as if they were being hateful towards me.
The ladies that came in were very rude, and would hardly talk to me but I never expected this.
I ve heard of people leaving fake money, or writing funny stuff in the tip spot of a check but never believed it would happen to me, in the way that it did, she added.Christians often leave fake $20 bills (and other denominations) to trick servers into thinking they have received a great tip.
When the server unfolds the bill, he or she discovers a Bible verse.
This is horrible, especially given the low wages in the service industry and the unfortunate fact that waitstaff often depend on tips to survive, but nor nearly as bad as a thinly-veiled death threat.Despite what could easily be called a hate crime if North Carolina did not enact legislation to protect the Faithful who choose to do this sort of thing, Judd remains resilient.
I don t care what anyone says, this is the most disrespectful thing you can do, she wrote on Facebook.
Don t pray for me darling, I have everything I could possibly want and need in my life.
Unfortunately, the bigot who left that note is severely lacking something in her life love for her fellow humans.
It is unclear if this Christian will act on her threat, but we hope not.Featured Image via screengrab