Noam Chomsky desperately wants America to wake up and see how destructive Republican values are to the future of this country.In an interview with DemocracyNow, the world-renowned political theorist didn t mince his words when he said the GOP could very well be the most dangerous organization in human history.
When DemocracyNow s Amy Goodman asked Chomsky what he thought about Donald Trump s unexpected rise as the presumptive Republican nominee, Chomsky explained that the Trump phenomenon was simply an extreme version of something that s been going on just for years in the Republican primaries.
Every time a candidate came up from the base Bachmann, McCain, Santorum, Huckabee, one crazier than the other every time one rose from the base, the Republican establishment sought to beat them down and get their own get their own man you know, Romney.
And they succeeded, until this year.
This year the same thing happened, and they didn t succeed.
The pressure from the base was too great for them to beat it back.
Chomsky expertly pointed out that this kind of extremism could be traced all the way back to the Reagan administration, and that today s Republicans have taken the party s close-minded values to an entirely different level.
This has been going on for a generation.
And while this has been happening, there s a kind of a vicious cycle.
You have more concentration of wealth, concentration of political power, legislation to increase concentration of wealth and power, and so on.
[T]he parties have shifted so far to the right that the today s mainstream Democrats are pretty much what used to be called moderate Republicans.
Now, the Republicans are just off the spectrum.
Making sure to highlight just how important this election is, and what dire consequences America might be faced with under a Republican president (like Donald Trump), Chomsky told Goodman that today s GOPers are so ignorant, they re basically making it their mission to make the future worse for everyone who has to live in it: [T]he fact of the matter is that today s Republican Party qualify as candidates for the most dangerous organization in human history.
Just take their position on the two major issues that face us: climate change, nuclear war.
On climate change, it s not even debatable.
They re saying, Let s race to the precipice.
Let s make sure that our grandchildren have the worst possible life.
Chomsky also noted that the GOP s call for increased militarization when it came to nuclear war was something that needed to be confronted, ASAP.
He said, There s been nothing this literally, this dangerous, if you think about it, to the species, really, ever.
We should face that.
Chomsky s comments are dead on the Republican party has never been more anti-humanity than it is right now.
One of the most vile, racist, misogynistic, ignorant members of society is now the GOP s presumptive nominee, and the rest of the party continues to threaten the human rights of minorities, women and the LGBT community on a daily basis.
This is a party that is blinded by ignorance and cannot move forward, but is hellbent on making life worse for the rest of us.
Their fear-mongering and rhetoric is dangerous, and now it is threatening to destroy the country.
And thanks to decades of these horrific attitudes, a racist reality television star is competing for the White House.
It is a f*cking disgrace.You can listen to Chomsky call out the GOP at the 17-minute mark in the video below:Featured image via William B. Plowman, Eduardo Munoz Alvarez / Getty Images