The controversy surrounding the Cincinnati Zoo s decision to kill Harambe, a 17-year old gorilla, in order to save a child has made its way into the one or two existing brain cells of people like Rush Limbaugh.
We all know Limbaugh is an idiot, but what he thinks about Harambe is so stupid it s astonishing, even for him.On his Tuesday show, he went off on a tangent when discussing Harambe, saying: A lot of people think that all of us used to be apes.
Don t doubt me on this.
A lot of people think that all of us used to be gorillas.
And they re looking for the missing link out there.
The evolution crowd.
They think we were originally apes.
I ve always if we were the original apes, then how come Harambe is still an ape, and how come he didn t become one of us?
That s Limbaugh playing anti-science creationist right there.
He never says he s a creationist, but it s pretty clear from this (and other shows) that he is.
Only young-earth creationists totally reject evolution this way.
Now all he has to do is agree out loud that either the Earth is young, or that man has been on the planet for billions of years (which is impossible), and he can come out as the Christian zealot he is.Twitter had a field day with this, as people are wont to do over there when someone takes the stupid farther than rational beings thought was possible:it s not everyday somebody shows their complete ignorance of basic science but dammit @rushlimbaugh you did it again.
ComicThoughtsOnTap (@Comthoughtontap) June 1, 2016 Rush Limbaugh says that evolution is false, because we still have apes, and why haven t they evolved?
pic.twitter.com/Dtbv75Zcng Penelope Douglas (@PenDouglas) June 2, 2016Confirmed: Your average 5-year-old is smarter than Rush Limbaugh re: evolution and human existence.
https://t.co/7GgErUrUvu Mark Morford (@markmorford) June 2, 2016 Dear Rush Limbaugh, you appear to be grossly confused about ape evolution.
Hope this helps.
pic.twitter.com/IexobvMtnL Mickey Atwal (@MickeyAtwal) June 2, 2016 If evolution is real, how did The Monkees just put out a new album?
Rush Limbaugh Joshua Malina (@JoshMalina) June 2, 2016 A lot of people think that all of us used to be gorillas @rushlimbaugh No.
Nobody who understands evolution thinks that.#clueless Creation Translation (@YECTranslator) June 1, 2016Rush Limbaugh asking them most important ignorant question of the week how come Harambe was still an ape?
M. Portland Ross (@RealMessiah29) June 1, 2016 I think the bigger question, @rushlimbaugh, is how you never evolved into a human and why are you not in a zoo somewhere?
#missinglink Kevin H. MacLean (@KHMacLean) June 1, 2016It s his radio show, so he ll say what he wants no matter how ignorant it sounds, and the creationists will cheer because their mouthpiece is on the radio again speaking their gospel.
It s not just the argument he makes that makes him sound so idiotic, it s also the fact that he jumped from the controversy surrounding Harambe s death to creation and evolution.
The stupid just burns.Featured image by Ethan Miller/Getty Images