Donald Trump shocked the world with a 10-minute phone call with Taiwan s leadership a move that could greatly damage diplomatic relationships with China.
This move, which was suspiciously preceded by the Trump Organization inquiring about building a hotel in Taiwan, led to an official complaint from China and made it clear to the world that Donald Trump is either too stupid to be President or worse that he knows exactly what he is doing and has an agenda that is in line with anyone else who wants to harm our country.Apparently, Chinese state-run media has decided the former is the case.Hammering The Donald for his repeated attacks on the country since the phone call, the Global Times speculates that The Donald is just an idiot who will eventually learn to employ diplomacy:Trump s reckless remarks against a major power show his lack of experience in diplomacy.
He may have overestimated the power of the US.
He may have already been obsessed with the power he is about to have a grip on, and wishes the whole world should follow his lead.
He may also believe that if China, the biggest power after the US, is awed by Washington, it will solve all other problems.No matter what Trump thinks, China must be determined to upset his unreasonable requests at his early time in office, and fight back if his moves harm China s interests, regardless of the consequences to the dynamics of the Sino-US relationship.
If China behaves soft-heartedly for the greater good of the bilateral ties, it will only embolden Trump to be more aggressive.Trump s China-bashing tweet is just a cover for his real intent, which is to treat China as a fat lamb and cut a piece of meat off it.
Trump wants to revive US economy, but he knows that his country is not as competitive as it used to be.
He is trying to pillage other countries for the prosperity of the US.
Trump sems to be wanting to make the US a new economic empire in the 21st century under his leadership, which is about to smash current world economic order.
However, he doesn t know that the US is the biggest beneficiary from the current world order, and he wants to reshape the world order into a winner-takes-all one.China Daily chided Trump for his lame excuses about the phone call, noting that no matter the reason he broke a decades-old bilateral diplomatic consensus and touched an ultra-sensitive diplomatic nerve.
The publication goes on to say that the incoming POTUS must familiarize himself with the way the world works outside his bubble because shit s about to get real when he is President and they can t roll their eyes at him any longer:Trump may dislike, distrust the diplomatic establishment in Washington D.C., and aspire to rework US foreign policies.
But he should first come to terms with the real, not imagined, reality of international relations before wielding the scalpel, because a misstep as president will be far more damaging than one as president-elect.As president-elect, Trump can expect some forgiveness even when he is shooting from the hip.
But things will be different when he becomes president.To stop acting like the diplomatic rookie he is, the next US president needs help in adapting to his forthcoming role change.
Otherwise, he will make costly troubles for his country, and find himself trying to bluster his way through constant diplomatic conflagrations.Donald Trump hasn t stepped foot in the Oval Office yet and he s already an international embarrassment and he needs to get his shit straight before he can do even more damage.Featured image via Getty Images/Chip Somodevilla