Donald Trump is an embarrassment to the GOP and, more importantly, to the nation.
He is also the most outrageously dangerous major party presidential candidate that America has seen in recent memory perhaps ever.
Well, many people on both the left and the right know this, and have jumped on the #NeverTrump train.
Now, there is a very interesting development: a group of women who have been lifelong Republicans doing all they can to elect presumptive nominee Hillary Clinton.The group is calling itself Republican Women for Hillary, and spent their 4th of July evening holding the first meeting of their fledgling organization at Washington s St. Regis Hotel.
These women are definitely not your typical Hillary supporters.
One of them admittedly spent copious amounts of time campaigning against abortion rights, and another is a Southern Baptist who is basically against everything Hillary Clinton and Democrats in general stand for.
However, their mission is to make sure Donald Trump never gets anywhere near the Oval Office even if it means doing all they can to elect Hillary Clinton.U.S.
Chamber of Commerce employee and staunch Republican Jennifer Lim, who helped found the group, explains the logic: It s really important that Republican leaders, especially Republican women leaders, stand up right now and say we re not OK with Trump representing our party.
This is not a position I ever wanted to find myself in.
But it s important that when things like this happen that people speak up.
It is important to note that this group is in no way affiliated with the Clinton campaign, but they do intend to do their own campaigning and activist activities, including urging people to vote for Clinton, while also helping conservatives facing political backlash for condemning Donald Trump and his destructive, dangerous campaign.Here is the tweet from the group s twitter, endorsing Clinton:We're with her!
#GOPwithHer #ImWithHer https://t.co/FhKIaa6BX5 RWFH (@GOPWomenWithHer) June 7, 2016Meghan Milloy, who is a member of Republican Woman for Hillary but also works for a conservative think tank called American Action Forum, seems conflicted and it is clear the decision was not easy to join this group.
However, her resolve is solid.
She says: It has been tough for me to come to this point where I can vote for a candidate who has been very against what I ve been working for for most of my professional career.
That being said, I can t vote for someone like Donald Trump because he s overtly racist and misogynist.
Jennifer Lim goes on to clarify the group s position: Are you a Republican who thinks @realDonaldTrump should not become president?Tell us why: https://t.co/OvwepPNXoC Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 6, 2016Featured image via David McNew/Getty Images