Newt Gingrich just got owned by the ladies of The View.
On Tuesday night, the Kelly File host interviewed Trump supporter and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich.As the pair argued about the accuracy of polls that show Donald Trump getting his his ass beat by Hillary Clinton, Kelly pointed out that Trump hasn t exactly been helping himself when it comes to the women s vote due to his comments about groping women and the sexual assault allegations that have been raining down on him ever since.When Kelly suggested that Trump may be a sexual predator, Gingrich exploded and flew into a disrespectful rage against her.
I m sick and tired of people like you using language that s inflammatory that s not true!
Gingrich yelled while wagging his finger at Kelly.
When you use the words, you took a position.
And I think it s very unfair of you to do that, Megyn!
I think that is exactly the bias people are upset by You are fascinated with sex and you don t care about public policy!
That s what I get out of watching you tonight!
Kelly responded by telling Gingrich that he doth protests too much and then ended the interview by telling him to go deal with his anger issues.Whoopi Goldberg and her co-hosts absolutely loved the way Kelly handled herself and the way she humiliated Gingrich.Candace Cameron Bure said she admired Kelly for standing up to Gingrich, only to then ruin the moment by agreeing with him that the media is biased.Goldberg replied by pointing out that the media took Bill Clinton to task back in the 1990s and that she would love to hear Trump talk about policy if he could ignore every little slight against him long enough to do so.BUre then complained because Trump isn t getting positive coverage from the media, only to get smacked down because Hillary Clinton is talking the way Trump is on the campaign trail.Then Joy Behar chimed in with the praise of the day to save the segment from going down the rabbit hole.
Megyn got him, he was bleeding from wherever, Behar quipped about Gingrich in reference to an attack on Kelly made by Trump early in the primary when he said she has blood coming out of her wherever just because she asked him about the many insults about women he has made over the years.
She nailed him, you know what I mean?
Behar continued.
When I watched that, I was like, Yes!
Sara Haines also enjoyed watching Gingrich get his ass handed to him and remarked that Trump only has himself to blame for the way the media is covering him.
Jedediah Bila agreed.
Newt Gingrich needs to watch The Kelly File, because she is tough on everyone, Bila said.
She s not somebody who picks favorites, she s somebody in this business who does her job.
It s not her fault that Donald Trump has said and done some horrible things that s Donald Trump s fault.
Bila concluded by pointing out that if Trump were out there talking policy well and articulating policy well, that would be the story but that s not the story because that s not what he is doing.
Here s the video via YouTube.Newt Gingrich made a huge mistake attacking Megyn Kelly in the way he did.
Because it only solidifies the image that Trump and his supporters have zero respect for women and that image is killing Trump and Republicans as a whole in the polls right now.Featured Image: Screenshot