Donald Trump doesn t particularly have a filter.
When the President of the United States is unhappy about an issue or feels somehow short-changed, he will immediately take to Twitter at any time of the day or night and vent, letting the world know his true feelings.
This alone makes Trump s half-hearted tweet on his secondary Twitter profile about the deadly Portland train attack three days after the event seem more than just a little insincere.Police in Portland, OR, charged Jeremy Joseph Christian on Saturday with two counts of aggravated murder and one count of attempted murder for stabbing three citizens on a light-rail train last Friday, men who had come to the aid of two teenage girls that Christian was racially abusing.
Destinee Magnum and a friend who was wearing a hijab were riding the light-rail when Christian started yelling at the pair in what Police describe as hate speech toward a variety of ethnicities and religions.
He told us to go back to Saudi Arabia and he told us we shouldn t be here, to get out of his country, Mangum, a non-muslim, told KPTV.
He was just telling us that we basically weren t anything and that we should just kill ourselves.
Frightened, the two girls moved to the back of the train while three men intervened to defend the girls.
Me and my friend were going to get off the MAX and then we turned around while they were fighting and he just started stabbing people, she said.
It was just blood everywhere and we just started running for our lives.
Ricky John Best, 53, of Happy Valley, died at the scene, while Taliesin Myrddin Namkai-Meche, 23, of Portland, died later in hospital.
Micah Fletcher, 21, is still in hospital being treated for serious injuries.America, and indeed the world, was horrified by the attack, with Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton tweeting soon after:Heartbreaking.
No one should have to endure this racist abuse.
No one should have to give their life to stop it.https://t.co/CpmQcHI8gi Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) May 27, 2017But America wanted to know what their president thought of the attack, an outspoken leader who is obsessed with social media and so disgusted by terrorism and hate-crimes.
Trump was overseas for his first official international trip as the American President on Friday, but surely the news of the heinous attack couldn t have slipped past him.
Nonetheless, the American people were kept waiting.Finally, three days later, President Trump took to his @POTUS Twitter account, not his personal @realDonaldTrump account, which has almost 31 million followers, and posted the following half-assed token response.The violent attacks in Portland on Friday are unacceptable.
The victims were standing up to hate and intolerance.
Our prayers are w/ them.
President Trump (@POTUS) May 29, 2017Using terminology that a parent would use on a child that brought home bad grades or a boss warning a hungover employee, President Trump called the actions of a man who took the lives of two innocent people defending two teenage girls from racial abuse unacceptable on his secondary, rarely-used Twitter account.Trump is still yet to mention the attack on his @realDonaldTrump account, but this tweet alone gives a true insight into how little the President really cares about the incident.Featured image via Sean Gallup/Getty Images