In his final 2016 White House Correspondence Dinner, a sharp tongued President Obama unleashed a scathing but hilarious barrage of humor on Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump and pretty much everyone who had ties to the GOP.
The president drew many laughs in front of journalists, celebrities, and politicians, both Democrats and Republicans.
However, one person wasn t there: Donald Trump.
The president said of Trump s absence:I m a little hurt that he s not here tonight.
We had so much fun the last time.
And it is surprising.
You got a room full of reporters, celebrities, cameras, and he says no.
Is this dinner too tacky for the Donald?
What could he possibly be doing instead?
Is he at home eating a Trump steak, tweeting out insults to Angela Merkel?
What s he doing?The president also had lots of fun with how the Republicans have reacted to the fact that Donald Trump is their most likely nominee.
The president said:The Republican establishment is incredulous that he s their most likely nominee.
Incredulous, shocking.
They say Donald lacks the foreign policy experience to be president.
But in fairness, he has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world.
Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan.
And there s one area where Donald s experience could be invaluable.
And that s closing Guantanamo.
Because Trump knows a thing or two about running waterfront properties into the ground.The president also took a shot at the media for their lopsided coverage of Trump s campaign which often times has been absurd in term of the amount of free press he s received.
The president told the audience full of reporters and journalists, I hope you re all proud of yourselves.
Let s hope that when all is said and done, the ascendancy of Donald Trump doesn t go beyond November and we can all breath a sigh of relief when we no longer see Trump s face plastered all over the media.Watch video here: [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcIrak9gdn8]Featured image via video screenshot.