In January of 2016, the U.S. economy added 151,000 jobs, and the unemployment rate dropped to 4.9%, the lowest it has been since February of 2008 as America dealt with the repercussions of the job-killing Bush Recession.Revisions also showed that 2015 was even better for jobs than initial reports had indicated.In terms of the revisions, today s report is the once-a-year report that revises every month from the previous calendar year.
On this front, the news is also good: we previously believed the U.S. economy created 2.65 million jobs in 2015, but the new, final tally is 2.74 million.January was the 64th consecutive month of positive job growth the best stretch since 1939 and the 71st consecutive month in which we ve seen private-sector job growth, which is the longest on record.President Obama took the opportunity of the successful jobs report to make an appearance before reporters today, and noted that We should feel good about the progress we ve made and that the U.S. economy is the strongest in the world, while at the same time Americans were working and getting bigger paychecks.
He also dinged Republicans, who have opposed the economic reforms proposed during his administration, and in fact have tried their best to slow down the recovery.
Obama noted that the positive figures are Inconvenient for Republican stump speeches as their doom and despair tour plays in New Hampshire.
I guess you cannot please everybody.
He also pointed out that the right has not offered anything beyond rhetoric.
Those who are running down the economy and adding to the anxiety don t seem to have any plausible, coherent recipe other than cut taxes for those who have been doing the very best in this economy and somehow magically, that s gonna make other folks feel good, Obama said.
Or, alternatively they argue the reason you re feeling insecure is because immigrants, or poor people are taking more and more of your paycheck and that is just not true.
The facts don t bear that out.
MSNBC s Steve Benen released a chart showing the comparison between Obama s record on jobs and the situation he encountered when taking over for Bush.
It gives an excellent picture of how far the economy has come, and a warning about what could be lost.US Unemployment: Bush vs ObamaFeatured image via YouTube