To say people aren t happy is an understatement.
People are extremely angry about state Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon shelving the single-payer healthcare bill in California.Huffington Post reports that Rendon has received death threats since making this decision.It is a shame that the bill got shelved as we all wanted to see how California would fare, but nobody should be threatening another life over it.
We, as people, are meant to be better than that.
Especially those of us with progressive outlooks.Rendon opted to pull the bill last week despite his support for a single-payer system.
He called the plan woefully incomplete.
He urged the state Senate to fill the holes and send the Assembly a workable bill next year.
Even senators who voted for SB 562 noted there are potentially fatal flaws in the bill, he said in a statement on Friday.
These include its failure to address many serious issues, such as financing, delivery of care, cost controls, or the realities of needed action by the Trump administration and voters to make the bill a genuine piece of legislation, he said.That sounds fair, does it not?
If we re going to do something progressive, we need to do it as correctly as possible, not half-baked.
Rendon does not sound like he s against the plan.Yet, the death threats poured in.
Supporters organized protests at Rendon s district office in Los Angeles County, as well as outside the state capitol in Sacramento.
Some single-payer supporters held signs depicting the California state flag s grizzly bear stabbed in the back with a knife that reads Rendon.
Social media got ugly, as always.I get it.
We re all frustrated over the current healthcare situation in America.
We all wanted to see how California would do with a single-payer system.
It could pave the way for other states and do amazing things for everyone.
But I think we should all step back and be rational about things.
Rome wasn t built in a day.You have a right to be angry, but people need to stop sending death threats when things don t work out.Featured image via ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images