While campaigning, Donald Trump vowed to build a great wall and Mexico will pay for it.
I will build a great wall and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me and I ll build them very inexpensively, the former reality show star said at the time.
I will build a great, great wall on our southern border, and I will make Mexico pay for that wall.
Mark my words.
Well, that s not going to happen.
Mexico is not paying for the wall and Trump s own homeland security secretary disagrees with the amateur president.Kelly said Wednesday that it is doubtful that a wall along the full border with Mexico would ever be built, despite Trump s claims.
It is unlikely that we will build a wall from sea to shining sea, Kelly told senators on the Homeland Security Committee, according to The New York Times.Instead, Kelly, who was appointed by Trump said the department will look to build physical barriers.
That includes fencing and concrete walls in places that make sense.Like his presidency and administration, Trump s plan for the great wall is amateurish and chaotic.In February, Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), a border-state Republican, said that building a physical wall along the border in some places makes no sense.
There are other Republicans who were left scratching their heads, too, over Trump s nonsensical border wall.
I don t think we re just going to be able to solve border security with a physical barrier because people can come under, around it and through it, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) said in January.Still yet, Kelly defended Trump s extreme vetting proposal in which he insists that children would not be routinely separated from their families unless the situation at the time requires it, such as when the mother is sick or addicted to drugs.
Right, because if a mother is sick, her children should be taken from her, amirite?It s not just elected officials who are wondering what the hell Trump is thinking.
A supporter of the alleged president s found her home suddenly on the Mexico side of the border.
We call that karma.
Adding to that, Trump wants a 30-foot wall that looks good on the northern side of the border.
We re not sure what she was thinking when she cast her vote for Trump.
He was very clear in what he said, and as far as his lies go, she was warned by Bernie Sanders, Hillary Clinton and Trump s Republican rivals that he s full of sh*t.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images