George Soros is sticking his nose into voter ID laws and throwing money into lawsuits in several states to get the law overturned.
Is this a true effort to overturn the laws or just an effort to gin the base up to vote?
There s absolutely nothing wrong with having voter ID!
Soros needs to slither away .Hillary Clinton s top campaign lawyer is behind a multi-state push challenging voter identification laws implemented in recent years, efforts that are expected to reach numerous other states ahead of the 2016 elections.Marc Elias, a top campaign lawyer for Hillary Clinton and a partner at the Washington, D.C., law firm Perkins Coie, has filed lawsuits in three states thus far.
The nationwide campaign is being fueled with money from the liberal billionaire George Soros.Elias first began exploring the possible challenges back in January 2014.
Soros then became involved, vowing to throw his weight behind the effort in collaboration with Elias.
We hope to see these unfair laws, which often disproportionately affect the most vulnerable in our society, repealed, Soros told the New York Times.
It is disingenuous to suggest that these laws are meant to protect against voter fraud, which is nearly nonexistent, Soros political adviser Michael Vachon added.
Clearly they are meant to give Republicans a political advantage on Election Day.
Soros has pledged $5 million to propel the campaign.
Elias did not return a request for comment concerning his dealings with Soros or the total number of lawsuits they plan on bringing forward.
A request for comment from George Soros s press office was also not returned by press time.Democrats ramped up their efforts last month to challenge voter ID laws implemented by Republican legislatures and governors, claiming that the laws disenfranchise minority voters.The first in the series of lawsuits was filed in Ohio on May 8.
Three weeks later, on June 1, a second suit was filed in Wisconsin.
On June 11, a third lawsuit was filed in Virginia.
Further suits are expected to follow in other states.Elias is working independently on behalf of his firm, Perkins Coie, though the Clinton camp supports the effort.
Perkins Coie has pulled in more than $40 million from Democratic clients since 2000.The suits came as Hillary Clinton made comments about voting in a number of public speeches.During a speech in Houston on June 4 at historically black Texas Southern University, Hillary Clinton called for a universal, automatic voter registration for 18-year-olds along with early voting up to 20 days before an election.
I call on Republicans at all levels of government with all manner of ambition to stop fear-mongering about a phantom epidemic of election fraud and start explaining why they re so scared of letting citizens have their say, Clinton said during the speech.True the Vote, a right-leaning vote-monitoring organization, sees the campaign as a political stunt to rile up apathetic voters who may not have the same excitement for Clinton as they did for Obama.Read more: WFB