BILL CLINTON has been accused of multiple rapes and sexual assaults against several women.
Bill s only punishment to date, is being married to Hillary.
No matter what he s done, or what he may still be doing, Bill Clinton continues to be a rock star in the Democrat Party.Today, FOX News has announced that Bill O Reilly has been fired: Fox News is parting ways with Bill O Reilly, who for years stood as one of cable news most popular hosts.
The network s parent company, 21st Century Fox, announced the move Wednesday in a statement.
After a thorough and careful review of the allegations, the Company and Bill O Reilly have agreed that Bill O Reilly will not be returning to the Fox News Channel, the statement read.The host s top-rated program, The O Reilly Factor, had recently suffered an exodus of advertisers amid revelations that O Reilly, Fox News and 21st Century Fox quietly paid out roughly $13 million in settlements to five women who had accused him of sexual harassment.
NPRHere is a statement from Bill O Reilly s attorney Marc E Kasowitz:That evidence will be put forth shortly and is irrefutable.Last week Bill O Reilly announced that he d be taking a two week vacation.
He made it clear in his announcement that there was nothing unusual about his planned vacation.
That was last week.
This week, his lengthy reign as Fox News top personality has come to an end.
Was it the advertisers who removed their ads from his show after caving to pressure from the left, or was it Rupert Murdoch s liberal son James who influenced their decision?It s interesting how conservatives in politics and in media are so willing to jump on the opposing team when it comes to destroying one of their own.
Democrats, and those in the leftist media will literally lay down on the tracks when it comes to defending one of the key players on their team.
When NBC s Brian Williams was caught red-handed lying several times to viewers about his phony interactions with the news while he was reporting, he simply took a brief vacation then came back as a host on their sister station MSNBC.
It was almost like nothing ever happened.When Hillary Clinton s husband, former President Bill Clinton was accused of raping and sexually assaulting several women throughout the course of his political career, Democrats laughed at and mocked his accusers.
Juanita Broaddrick was especially vocal about Bill Clinton raping her during Hillary s campaign.
Thanks to Donald Trump, she was finally able to tell the media her story and how Hillary enabled Bill to continue to sexually assaulting women.
Hillary s fans paid no attention to Broaddrick, the media and the Democrat Party had already discredited her.With the exception of Donald Trump (who wouldn t allow anyone to falsely malign him or his character), if a woman makes an accusation of sexual assault or advances against a high-profile conservative media personality or politician, one can pretty much be assured they ll be removed from their position with approval of their fellow conservatives in short-order.It s the age old question: Why are conservatives so willing to eat their own?
When will we learn to rally around our own and stop allowing the left to destroy anyone who s capable of harming them and their agenda?
Bill O Reilly is the top-rated conservative personality on the top-rated conservative-leaning news organization.
Where is the outrage from viewers?
Why are we assuming these allegations are true because the left tells us they are?
As a woman, I am keenly aware that we have a lot of power when it comes to destroying a man s career in the hostile anti-male environment we re living in today.
I d actually like to see Bill O Reilly go to court over these allegations and not quietly settle them behind closed doors.
Perhaps his conservative viewers should have given him the benefit of the doubt, and maybe FOX News should have considered defending him to the leftists who wanted his hide James Murdoch also pushed to fire Roger Ailes amid last summer s sex scandal, and sources think he could be successful in weeding out O Reilly this time around.
The New York Magazine reported earlier today that the Murdoch family has decided to pull The O Reilly Factor off air amid allegations of sexual harassment against prime-time host Bill O Reilly, and will soon be officially announcing his departure, according to sources close to Gabriel Sherman in New York magazine.According to Sherman, the decision was primarily driven by Rupert Murdoch s sons, James and Lachlan, after The New York Times reported earlier this month that $13 million has been paid out from either Fox News or O Reilly to five women to settle their sexual harassment claims against the host in lieu of litigation, despite O Reilly s denying the veracity of their claims.Fox News executives are reportedly meeting on Wednesday to discuss how to contain any damage from an O Reilly dismissal.
O Reilly, who is currently on vacation, has hosted the network s most popular show The O Reilly Factor since the network s inception in 1996 and remains the country s highest-rated cable news host.Sherman reports that the board of Fox News parent company, 21st Century Fox, is scheduled to meet on Thursday to discuss the matter.
Decisions are now being made as to whether O Reilly will be allowed a final show to bid farewell to his audience.
They are also discussing the terms of his release, with O Reilly recently having signed a new long-term $20 million a year contract.Executives within the company are also discussing who will fill O Reilly s primetime 8 pm slot, with hosts such as Eric Bolling, Dana Perino, and Tucker Carlson currently under consideration.
Breitbart News