Donald Trump is seriously stupid.Considering all of the sexual assault allegations against him, the fact that he wants to bang his daughter, the fact that he has hit on teen girls, and talked about dating a girl when she was just ten-years old, one would think Trump would know better than to bring a girl on stage at one of his rallies.But that s exactly what he did on Monday night when he invited the child to the podium.
Trump then picked her up, told her how beautiful she is and then tried to kiss her repeatedly, including on the lips, which the girl clearly did NOT appreciate.
You can see it on her face as she tries to avoid Trump s lips and then runs back to her parents.Here s the video via YouTube.The optics here are absolutely terrible.
If Trump had done this a year ago this probably wouldn t be much of a story.
But we are three weeks out from Election Day and Donald Trump is embroiled in a mountain of sexual assault allegations and is still experiencing fallout because of his comments about groping women and not waiting to kiss women he considers beautiful.
Apparently, that disgusting personal policy includes little girls, too.Of course, Trump trying to kiss a little girl horrified America, and they let Trump know about it on Twitter.About the gross video of Trump trying to kiss a little girl against her will: I don t even try to hug my daughter when she s not feeling it.
Bearded Tombstoner (@beardedstoner) October 18, 2016That s right children!
Do not let creepy men like Trump force you to kiss them!
Good job!
Tonight via @GoAngelo pic.twitter.com/7uXzme2oKh RiotWomenn (@riotwomennn) October 18, 2016Given what we know about Trump, I don t find the gif of the little girl pulling away from his kiss funny.
Like, at all.
Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) October 18, 2016I ll admit, I wasn t ready to see Trump trying to kiss a little black girl on the mouth.
Who the hell does that to someone else s child?
Jamil Smith (@JamilSmith) October 18, 2016This is extremely painful to watch.
That poor girl was so uncomfortable.
Trump is a disgusting, perverted man.
https://t.co/fZjiW8pxNg Izzy Galvez (@iglvzx) October 18, 2016Seriously, Trump is a 70-year-old man.
He should know better.Featured image via screen cap