Now, typically no one should be mocking a teenager in their place of education, but since it is a place of education, perhaps this can be seen as the child learning something valuable.
And while it s never okay to bully, pointing out to someone that they re wearing the hat of a bigoted bully should be mandatory.That being said, one high school sophomore in Portland, Maine, is catching a lot of criticism for wearing his Donald Trump Make America Great Again hat, and rightly so.Conner Mullen says that everyone is wearing their Bernie pins, so he should be able to wear his Donald Trump hat.
However, his fellow classmates are apparently relentless in their taunting, and even a teacher called him out, allegedly saying, Thank God you can t vote.
When Mullen took his grievance to the assistant principal s office, the solution offered was simply to leave the hat at home.Mullen said: I knew kids would pick on me about it, that s just kids being kids, but when the adults started doing it I thought that s problematic.
This is a school that preaches equality.
Oh dear.
Yes, he actually said that.
He just equated himself to the plight for equality because he s being teased for wearing a bigot s hat.
The irony is palpable.According to Mullen, the reason he wants Trump to be president is: I want a job where you can help people, and I ve heard Trump say how important he thinks veterans and (people in law enforcement) are.
Oh, dear boy, please, oh please don t believe the pandering nonsense that comes out of Trump s mouth.
And as far as his love for veterans, how much he s been supposedly giving veteran groups is highly questionable.Here s the thing, the school isn t telling him he shouldn t wear the hat, but they are suggesting if he d like to stop being relentlessly mocked for such a poor fashion decision, that he should probably just leave the hat at home.
Trump is a bigot and probably the worst choice this country could ever have for the role of Commander-in-Chief.The bigger concern here is, what is this student being taught that he believes Trump is a good option?
Maybe that should be the real story.Watch the story via WCSH out of Portland, Maine:Featured image via video screen capture