Donald Trump s transition effort has already been an embarrassing, chaotic affair.
It s been more like a reality show and a quest for public humiliation and revenge than the dignified affair that it has been for presidents past.
Now, Team Trump has another problem: The inauguration.
You see, usually, presidents-elect have pop stars and other A-list stars from around the globe scrambling to get a spot at the plum event.
For instance, Barack Obama had the likes of Beyonce and Aretha Franklin celebrating his swearing in.
Not the case, however, for Donald Trump.
In fact, the opposite seems to be true.According to BBC News, the Trump team is so desperate for inaugural talent that they are actually offering to pay the stars to come something that never happens.
Of course, Trump s Inaugural Committee is denying this, saying via spokesman Boris Epshteyn: No one with any official position at, or official relationship with, the presidential committee is engaging in the conduct described.
Of course, this is likely a lie, since another mouthpiece from Trump s inaugural clown car lied and said that Sir Elton John would be showing up.
As soon as that news was out of the box, Sir Elton s publicist released a strongly-worded rebuke of Team Trump that said: Incorrect.
He will NOT be performing.
There is no truth in this at all.
Further, a source close to the inaugural efforts said of the team s desperation: They re calling managers, agents, everyone in town to see who they can get and it s been problematic.
They are willing to pay anything.
Other stars weighed in as well.
Singer John Legend says that he is not surprised at all, and continued: Creative people tend to reject bigotry and hate.
We tend to be more liberal-minded.
When we see somebody that s preaching division and hate and bigotry, it s unlikely he ll get a lot of creative people that want to be associated with him.
Queen frontman and American Idol star Adam Lambert said of the potential gig, even if there was lots of cash involved: I don t think I would take the money on that one.
I don t think I d be endorsing that.
They might struggle.
Less well-known singer Matt Healy, who fronts The 1975, seemed to think the whole thing might be good for a laugh: I ll do it if they give me cash up front.
Then watch what would happen.
It would be a riot.
Even the comedy isn t enough for Healy, though, as he continued: What do I want?
Well, he s got gold seatbelts in his plane so at least a million quid.
Well, this ought to be an interesting affair.
It will probably look like the Republican National Convention did, with people like Pastor Mark Burns and Sheriff Clarke giving hateful, hellfire and brimstone speeches, with Chris Christie once again prosecuting Hillary Clinton from the stage, protesters outside, and with the only musical talent being people like Kid Rock and Ted Nugent.Get ready for another national disgrace courtesy of Donald Trump, folks.
Murica.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images