It gets more outrageous by the day for the Trump campaign when it comes to racism and racists.
It appears Trump has assembled a political team and a fan base of individuals who are racist to the core.
Take for example current Trump campaign spokesperson Katrina Pierson.
Back in 2012, Pierson took to Twitter and lamented at the lack of pure breeds running for president in reference to President Obama, who has a father of Kenyan descent, and Mitt Romney, whose father was born in Mexico.Perfect Obama's dad born in Africa, Mitt Romney's dad born in Mexico.
Any pure breeds left?
#CNNDebate Katrina Pierson (@KatrinaPierson) January 20, 2012In her tweet, Pierson implies that having a parent born oversees somehow makes someone less American, or to put it in more eugenical terms, less pure.
That s interesting, since Donald Trump s mother was actually born in Scotland.
One can easily infer why she would find Scotland more acceptable to be born in than Kenya or Mexico.Pierson is in agreement on all of Trump s policies, including supporting the ban on Muslims from entering the United States.
She also advocates using America s nuclear arsenal in some capacity against perceived enemies saying, What good does it do to have a good nuclear triad if you re afraid to use it?
Katrina Pierson is not without a checkered history.
She s been accused of collecting thousands of dollars in welfare benefits while working.
She also made a recent appearance on CNN where she wore a necklace made of bullets.
After anti-gun advocates called her out, she promised to wear a necklace made of fetuses.
Pierson also has an arrest record for shoplifting.
Ironically, four years before her wacky tweet, Pierson sued her previous employer for racial discrimination.Donna Pierson s antics and her checkered history shouldn t be surprising.
After all, she s helping steer one of the most racist and frightening presidential campaigns in American history.
Let s hope that the country can find a few good laughs with these crazies and put them all in the dust bin of history when the time comes.Featured Image Via YouTube Screenshot.