Despite claiming that he never watches Morning Joe on MSNBC, it became very clear on Monday morning that Donald Trump lied about that.Political analyst Rick Tyler joined the panel and had a field day mocking the Republican nominee for finally toning down his campaign rhetoric instead of continuing to act like a petulant child.
Reince Priebus has been particularly happy about the change and Tyler couldn t resist comparing him to a dad who had just successfully potty trained his toddler.
He s sort of talking about his candidate as if he graduated from diapers to big boy pants, Tyler quipped as the studio broke out in laughter.
This is not great progress, he continued.
His new tone, I don t understand what the new tone is.
Tyler went on to question whether Trump s new pivot is the real Donald Trump since he s only doing it late into the campaign after weeks of disastrous poll numbers.Mika Brzezinski chimed in later on that Trump s claim that Hillary Clinton would cause Americans to lose everything sounded like it came from someone who loaded up on alcohol prior to the rally.
He belted like, honestly, like he s had a lot to drink, Brzezinski said.
His delivery is very Blaaaaaagh!
Here s the video via Twitter..@rickwtyler: Reince Preibus sort of talked about Trump as if he graduated from diapers to big boy pants https://t.co/5NlRA9O5L7 Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) August 22, 2016As it turns out, Donald Trump was watching Morning Joe while they were mocking him, so of course the thin-skinned businessman lashed out on Twitter by attacking Mika and threatened to reveal secrets about her and Joe Scarborough.
Tried watching low-rated @Morning_Joe this morning, unwatchable!
@morningmika is off the wall, a neurotic and not very bright mess!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2016Some day, when things calm down, I ll tell the real story of @JoeNBC and his very insecure long-time girlfriend, @morningmika.
Two clowns!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 22, 2016Trump s hissy fit drew a fantastic response from Joe in defense of his co-host.
He even thanked Trump for helping the show draw the best ratings.
Neurotic and not very bright?
Look in the mirror.
https://t.co/FPaqGW9JWv Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) August 22, 2016Thanks for watching.
Morning Joe is enjoying it s best ratings ever thanks to obsessed fans like you.
GLAD?
https://t.co/FPaqGW9JWv Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) August 22, 2016Trump s new campaign staff had one job and they failed.
One of the reasons why Trump s campaign has been imploding is because he can t control his reactions towards those who mock or criticize him.
So it looks like it only took a morning cable show to end Trump s new tone.
That change didn t last long at all.Featured image via John Moore/Getty Images