I m Doug Hughes, I m 61 years old and I m a mailman working out of Riverview, Florida.
No sane person would do what I m doing.
I had carefully planned it so that no one would get hurt, including me especially me.
I thought about being 75 years old and watching the collapse of this country, and thinking that I had an idea that might have arrested the fall and didn t do it.
And I will tell you, completely honestly that I d rather die in the flight than live to be 80 years old and see this country fall.
The wife of a Florida man who was arrested after he landed a one-man gyrocopter on the west lawn of the U.S. Capitol building to protest money in politics insists that her husband is a patriot.While she says that she was not aware that her husband was going to attempt the illegal flight to Washington, Alena Hughes nonetheless believes that her husband is a patriot who loves his country.
I think he s a patriot and I m proud of him, Mrs. Hughes told the media.Still, the whole incident has been stressful, Alena said.Doug Hughes, 61, a post office employee from Tampa Bay, Florida, told Capitol police that his gyrocopter mission was to highlight money in politics and he intended to deliver a letter to each member of Congress to urge them to initiate campaign finance reform.Since his arrest, the 61-year-old also claimed that the 2012 suicide of his son, John Joseph, also motivated him to make his protest flight.Hughes hired an attorney in Washington, but Mrs. Hughes also hired Paul Carr, her own attorney, just in case.Mrs.
Hughes attorney had an interesting take on Mr. Hughes actions.
Tell me what restrictions mailmen have to deliver mail, Carr said.
The attorney went on saying, He has a right to deliver mail.
In fact, it s his obligation.
Purportedly getting money out of politics has been a long-time goal of the left-wing.
But Hughes is fighting against several Supreme Court decisions that holds that donating to politicians and political causes equates to a protected right of free speech.
Via: Breitbart NewsHERE IS THE VIDEO FOOTAGE TAKEN BY A TEACHER OUTSIDE OF THE WHITE HOUSE AS HUGHES MADE HIS LANDING ON THE WHITE HOUSE LAWN: