Donald Trump, despite having a face and hairline made for radio, is convinced that the way to run a government is to hold casting calls.
He wants to choose cabinet nominees who look the part, rather than nominees who are qualified.
Presentation is very important because you re representing America not only on the national stage but also the international stage, depending on the position, said Trump transition spokesman Jason Miller.To lead the Pentagon, Trump chose a rugged combat general, whom he compares to a historic one.
At the United Nations, his ambassador will be a poised and elegant Indian American with a compelling immigrant backstory.
As secretary of state, Trump tapped a neophyte to international diplomacy, but one whose silvery hair and boardroom bearing project authority.Source: Washington PostFor some reason, die-hard conservatives are not at all bothered by this method of choosing the people who will be responsible for our health and safety.
He likes people who present themselves very well, and he s very impressed when somebody has a background of being good on television because he thinks it s a very important medium for public policy, said Chris Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax Media and a longtime friend of Trump.
Don t forget, he s a showbiz guy.
He was at the pinnacle of showbiz, and he thinks about showbiz.
He sees this as a business that relates to the public.
The look might not necessarily be somebody who should be on the cover of GQ magazine or Vanity Fair, Ruddy said.
It s more about the look and the demeanor and the swagger.
Trump allegedly chose Marine Gen. James Mattis as his nominee for Secretary of Defense because he is the closest thing to General George Patton that we have.
That s in reference to a physical resemblance, not his abilities as a general.
Trump also chose Mike Pence for his looks and teased that he was going to choose Mitt Romney for Secretary of State for his looks.
If our Republican Congress gave a crap about the people they represent, they would shut down these central casting nominees from the start, but this style of hiring fits right in with the Republican agenda, which is to take the government down from the inside.Featured image via Ty Wright/Getty Images