The Republican Party is tearing at the seams due to Donald Trump s frontrunner status for the party s presidential nomination.
Thousands of Republicans will either refuse to vote for him or vote for Democrats to keep Donald Trump from taking over their party and ultimately the Oval Office.
But Mr. Trump s campaign, along with Senator Ted Cruz who is also despised by many of his Republican colleagues and supporters of the party, have pulled Republicans far to the right, leaving moderate Republicans with nowhere to turn but the Democratic Party.Republicans currently have a majority in both the House and the Senate.
Congress has been in gridlock since they took over.
The GOP majority has consistently refused to do their jobs; they are more focused on obstructing President Obama than working with Democrats to solve the pressing problems facing our nation.
This November, those do-nothing Republicans will pay the price by losing elections across the country, in addition to the presidential election.Republicans love to do nothing, so the Democrats will help them achieve those ambitions of doing nothing by no longer allowing them to be employed in Congress.
Despite the pressing and timely concerns posed by the threat of climate change, Republicans refuse to acknowledge its existence and do nothing.
When religious nutjob Kim Davis refused to do her job as a county clerk charged with issuing marriage licenses in Kentucky, Republicans applauded her propensity for not doing her job.
When Paul Ryan became Speaker of the House, Republicans forced him to promise to not do anything on immigration reform, and bow to the party leaders wishes for Congress to continue to do nothing better than before.Despite mass shootings occurring all over the country on a regular basis, the Republican Party has refused to take any action on gun control or mental health issues.
Every meaningful proposal or reform that is introduced into Songress is met with staunch resistance from the Republican Party, who refuses to act to help solve or mitigate any of the issues facing the country.
With the Republican majority gone, Democrats can finally start solving some of the country s problems.Featured image via Flickr