The New York Daily News, once again, has knocked it out of the park with their Wednesday cover.
The cover features images of presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan next to each other.
Ryan is pointing his index towards Trump, with the words I m with racist written over the two Republicans.The cover photo was shared on Twitter Tuesday night, where it quickly went viral.
Here s the cover photo:Tomorrow's front page: I'M WITH RACIST!
Ryan still supports Trump, "definition of racist" https://t.co/0C1JIaQxwN pic.twitter.com/AxlnLYWcv2 New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) June 7, 2016The cover relates to Ryan s recent public condemnation of Trump s racist rhetoric.
I disavow these comments.
Claiming a person can t do the job because of their race is sort of like the textbook definition of a racist comment.
I think that should be absolutely disavowed.
It s absolutely unacceptable.
Trump s flagrantly racist comments aren t enough for Ryan to rescind his endorsement of Trump.
Ryan offered this explanation as to why he is still supporting Trump: Do I believe that Hillary Clinton is the answer?
No, I do not, he said.
I believe that we have more common ground on the policy issues of the day and we have more likelihood of getting our policies enacted with him than we do with her.
The actual article that The NY Daily News published describes the situation with a bit of apt snark, by saying, Donald Trump is a racist, but he s our racist, the Republican speaker of the House said.
The cover is emblematic of the current situation happening in Republican politics.
The GOP is a party divided.
Top Republican party members have consistently refused to take a firm stance on Trump s most controversial proposals.
Those proposals include building a wall a border wall that isn t needed between the United States and Mexico and the laughable assertion that Mexico will pay for this mega construction project.
Then there is Trump s proposal to ban all Muslims from entering the United States.
A policy that is blatantly xenophobic, impossible to enforce, and will do absolutely nothing to prevent terrorism.Though, Trump s economic policies (whatever they are this week) tend to follow the trickle down economic agenda of the party of big business, which is apparently good enough for Ryan.Featured image from screenshot via Twitter