Yesterday, the Imam who calls himself the Imam of peace called out NYC s Democrat mayor, Bill DeBlasio, for ignoring the Imam s warnings about Islamic terror in NYC.About #NYC terrorist attack, I personally sent letters to Mayor De Blasio online & in person about terrorist breeding in NYC.He did nothing.
Imam Tawhidi (@Imamofpeace) October 31, 2017In 2016, I told Mayor De Blasio that I was in NYC and noticed some hot radical centres.
I was willing to point out serious cases.
Ignored!
Imam Tawhidi (@Imamofpeace) October 31, 2017When critics came after him, Imam Tawhidi announced that he would release his letter to DeBlasio warning him of Islamic extremists in NY.I ll be releasing my 2016 letter to Mayor De Blasio warning him of Islamic extremists in NY upon my landing .
His office is a proven FAIL!
https://t.co/QQCLN1OiNf Imam Tawhidi (@Imamofpeace) November 1, 2017The popular Imam is not shy about his thoughts on radical Islam.The Islamic world is infested with extremists.
Whoever denies this is either unaware of what s going on or simply a benefiting politician.
Imam Tawhidi (@Imamofpeace) November 1, 2017He s not shy about calling out the hypocrisy in Islamic politics eitherIslamic politics is amazing.
We behead each other with our own knives, stone with our own stones, then our leaders blame the USA.
Spot on .
Imam Tawhidi (@Imamofpeace) August 11, 2017Today, Imam Tawhidi called out CBS for making the NYC terrorist appear to be white in their New York attack suspect: Who is Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov?
article.Here s the image CBS used in their story:Here s the Imam s tweet:CBS tried to make terrorist Saipov white, I m glad they didn t make his eyes blue as well.
pic.twitter.com/EQH3v57itk Imam Tawhidi (@Imamofpeace) November 1, 2017This isn t the first time that a liberal media outlet has been accused of white-washing an image of a high-profile killer to fit a certain liberal narrative.Conservative Treehouse accused CNN of whitewashing the selfie image of Oregon Umpqua College killer, Christopher Mercer, that he uploaded to his Facebook page.
On the right is how CNN presented the same selfie in broadcast stories about him.
Why did CNN need to change the complexion (color) of their broadcast?What are your thoughts?
Do you believe CBS intentionally white-washed the image of the New York City terrorist?
We d like to hear what you have to say.
Please tell us what you think in the comment section below.