No one has ever accused the Bundy boys of being intelligent.
Their grasp on reality is a little sketchy, as is pretty much everything they do.
They are the poster children for entitlement expecting the government to give them free stuff (cattle grazing land), and then when the government charges them, they take over a bird sanctuary in Oregon.
Now, they are pissed that after they broke numerous laws, their rights are being stripped away, just like everyone else who s in jail.Ammon and Ryan Bundy, sons of Cliven Bundy, are suing the Multnomah County Sheriff s Office.
Some of their complaints don t seem completely ridiculous.
They want more access to the law library, discovery material and office supplies.
They also feel that the jail hasn t been accommodating enough to their Mormon religion.
But it s not all sane, at all.UNSPECIFIED LOCATION JANUARY 26: (EDITORS NOTE: Best quality available) In this composite with handout images provided by the Multnomah County Sheriff s Office, suspects (Top L) Ammon Bundy, Ryan Bundy, Ryan Waylen Payne, Brian Cavalier, (Bottom L) Peter Santilli, Joseph Donald OShaughnessy , and Shawna Cox pose for a mugshot photo after being arrested by U.S. Marshalls January 26, 2016 in Oregon.
Ammon Bundy and seven others were arrested in a traffic stop along Highway 395 outside Burns, Oregon.
One person was killed in the confrontation.
Bundy led a group of armed followers, adopting the name Citizens for Constitutional Freedom, and occupied the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.
(Photo by Multnomah County Sheriff s Office via Getty Images) My rights are being violated.
My right to life is being violated.
All of my First Amendment rights are being violated.
My right to freedom of religion is being violated, Ryan Bundy wrote in a supporting statement.
My Second Amendment rights are being violated.
I never waived that right.
My Fourth Amendment rights are being violated.Wait, what?
The Bundys are complaining because they re not allowed to have their guns, in jail!?
Oh, and that search and seizure stuff that they tend to do in jail is very tiresome.Believe it or not, the jail hasn t completely laughed off all the Bundy complaints.
They have given them more access to the library and they are considering giving them access to a computer of some sort.
MCSO is willing to consider permitting inmates to have a solid-state device like an iPad, loaded with discovery including video, legal materials and a word-processing program to be made available to the person only in his cell, jail officials responded to the request.Just imagine one moment that the Bundys were Muslim instead of Mormon.
9/11 suspects were accused of having laptops, while in Gitmo, according to the unreliable Washington Times.As for the religious gatherings, the jail put their foot down.
They wanted to gather together, wearing temple garments beneath their jail clothes.
The jail was worried about them gathering, but they did allow them an extra towel for kneeling to pray and they are allowed to wear their religious garments.The jail also refused to give them access to the internet, chairs in their cells, access to other defendants, unmonitored phone calls, a cordless printer and scanner, more storage space and real pens.
Come on, anyone who s every watched a prison movie knows that real pens are killers.Not a single one of the jail s concessions have been enough, according to the Bundys.
They are considering suing.
Here s a copy of the complaint.
The Bundys are accused of 16 federal felonies.
If they are convicted, they will never be able to own a gun again, not that that will stop them.Featured image via Justin Sullivan with Getty Images