I guess Trump missed the sticks and stones lesson in life as more and more of his critics are getting blocked on Twitter over the tiniest things.Take, for example, Rob Szczerba s covfefe ice cream joke.
According to CNN, Szczerba tweeted Trump: @realDonaldTrump I heard #covfefe is a new flavor from Ben & Jerry s. But it s mostly just nuts!
I heard #covfefe is a new flavor from Ben & Jerry's.
But it's mostly just nuts!
#ParisAgreement #ParisAccord Rob Szczerba (@RJSzczerba) June 2, 2017When Szczerba went to tweet Trump again not long after, he found himself blocked by Trump.How sad is that?
Blocked because of a joke.
Rather than laugh off his own typo, Trump would rather pout and block people.Lauren Wolfe believes that blocking critics poses dangerous implications.
When Trump shuts out his critics, he withdraws further into the bubble of sycophancy he already enjoys, Wolfe wrote in an opinion piece for CNN.Wolfe raises a valid point.
As the old saying goes: if you can t handle the heat, get out of the kitchen.
So, what is Trump doing in the kitchen?Since Trump shows no signs of stopping as the number of people he blocks on Twitter grows, questions and concerns are on the rise.
While some wear their blocked status proudly and couldn t care less, it raises first amendment concerns.If tweets by Trump, no matter how ridiculous they are, should they be inaccessible to certain people?
After all, his tweets are meant to be treated as official White House statements.The Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University says a lawsuit is not out of the question if Trump doesn t unblock Twitter users.
Your Twitter account is a designated public forum for essentially the same reasons that open city council meetings and school board meetings are, the lawyers wrote in the letter.A fair point.
Nobody deserves or should be exempt from what the president has to say on social media.
Trump is no longer a private citizen and his Twitter account is also no longer personal to hide from others.While hilariously sad that Trump s blocking people, it just reinforces that everything is Trump s way or the highway.Featured image via Pete Marovich/Bloomberg via Getty Images