Less than a week before one of the most important presidential elections of our lifetimes, the focus has been turned to one part of the executive branch, the FBI.
Director James Comey has come under an extraordinary amount of criticism for his apparent combing of files to release everything, anything, that could be construed as anti-Clinton.
Many are even calling him an arm of the Republican party.This latest revelation isn t going to change any of his critics minds.
It seems that the FBI Twitter account, which hadn t tweeted for more than a year, suddenly had some undeniably partisan tweets.The first came on October 30th, when the FBI Twitter account tweeted, strangely and seemingly out of the blue, about Donald Trump s father:Fred C. Trump: Fred C. Trump (1905-1999) was a real estate developer and philanthropist.
This release consists of https://t.co/21KgtPpmzk FBI Records Vault (@FBIRecordsVault) October 30, 2016The tweet mysteriously left out the parts about the elder Trump s involvement with the KKK and his racist business practices.There was actually a rash of tweets that day, but most weren t political.
Still, it was an odd time for the dormant account to suddenly come to life.On November 1st, there was one more tweet.
This time, it was directed right to Bill Clinton:William J. Clinton Foundation: This initial release consists of material from the FBI s files related to the Will https://t.co/Y4nz3aRSmG FBI Records Vault (@FBIRecordsVault) November 1, 2016That was it.
The account now appears to be back in hibernation, but the tweets are undergoing an internal investigation, because regardless, someone broke the law.
The FBI, according to their own rules and according to federal law, is not allowed to influence elections.
Candice Will, Assistant Director for the FBI s Office of Professional Responsibility, said she was referring the matter to the FBI s Inspection Division for an investigation.
Upon completion of the investigation, the findings will be referred back to the the Office of Professional Responsibility for adjudication.'
Source: Think ProgressThe results of this investigation, unfortunately, will probably not be released before the election next Tuesday, but this, if anything, is simply more proof that the FBI, and in particular, James Comey, is holding his thumb on the scale trying to elect Donald Trump.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images