Donald Trump s pick for Communications Director took an already vulgar administration down another notch or 3,000 in an interview with the New Yorker.
It sounded more like the ramblings of a low-level mob hitman than of a Harvard Law grad who s been tapped to manage the message of the supposed leader of the free world.
Here are a few snippets (not suitable for most children, or for most adults):On Chief of Staff Reince Priebus: Reince Priebus if you want to leak something he ll be asked to resign very shortly.
And Reince is a fucking paranoid schizophrenic, a paranoiac Let me leak the fucking thing and see if I can cock-block these people the way I cock-blocked Scaramucci for six months.'
On leakers: What I want to do is I want to fucking kill all the leakers and I want to get the President s agenda on track so we can succeed for the American people.
On Steve (whatever his job is) Bannon: I m not Steve Bannon, I m not trying to suck my own cock.
The interview, which would have made Richard Nixon blush, was potentially more than just obscene.
It may have been a felony.
In talking about leaks (he wants to kill all the leakers), one quote got the attention of the FBI: This is going to get cleaned up very shortly, O.K.?
Scaramucci said.
Because I nailed these guys.
I ve got digital fingerprints on everything they ve done through the F.B.I.
and the fucking Department of Justice.
Source: Daily BeastThere s just one problem.
Scaramucci doesn t actually work for the White House yet.
He has no security clearance.
He isn t supposed to have any digital fingerprints or any information from the FBI or the fucking Department of Justice.
If he does have that information, he s potentially in a lot of trouble.
If an FBI agent turned over digital evidence demonstrating who did particular leaks, that would be wildly inappropriate, said Ken White, a former federal prosecutor who now practices criminal defense and first amendment litigation.
It could be illegal.
It could be a felony depending on the nature of the evidence and how it was acquired.
It would certainly be a flagrant breach of FBI protocol.
Of course, Scaramucci is a Trumpster, which means that as with any Trump marriage, he and truth likely sleep in separate bedrooms.
Or, as White says, Scaramucci s claim is just dumbass popped-collar chest bumping, which describes pretty much the entire Trump fiasco of an administration.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images.