A sit-in staged by the NAACP is currently underway at the office of Sen. Jeff Sessions in protest of Donald Trump s decision to nominate him as U.S. Attorney General despite his racist past.Protesters say they will continue the sit-in at Sessions Mobile, Alabama office until he is no longer the nominee or they are arrested.
Otherwise, they intend to stay right where they are.Brooks posted the following picture of the sit-in to his Twitter page:The @NAACP & @AlabamaNAACP are occupying the Mobile office of @jeffsessions untill he withdraws as a AG nominee or we re arrested.
@tvonetv pic.twitter.com/7uceDDpz1Y Cornell Wm.
Brooks (@CornellWBrooks) January 3, 2017Trump nominated Sessions, a former Alabama attorney general, in November and he has a long, long history of being a raging bigot.
This is what the New York Times had to say about Sessions racist past when Trump announced him as his attorney general pick.While serving as a United States prosecutor in Alabama, Mr.
Sessions was nominated in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan for a federal judgeship.
But his nomination was rejected by the Republican-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee because of racially charged comments and actions.
At that time, he was one of two judicial nominees whose selections were halted by the panel in nearly 50 years.In testimony before the committee, former colleagues said that Mr.
Sessions had referred to the N.A.A.C.P., the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and other civil rights groups as un-American and Communist-inspired.
An African-American federal prosecutor then, Thomas H. Figures, said Mr.
Sessions had referred to him as boy and testified that Mr.
Sessions said the Ku Klux Klan was fine until I found out they smoked pot.
Mr.
Sessions dismissed that remark as a joke.Mr.
Sessions was also accused of speaking disparagingly of the Voting Rights Act and the stringent oversight it placed on Southern states.Gee, I wonder why the NAACP doesn t think we should appoint this guy as the nation s attorney general?
Maybe because he could set civil rights back decades?According to Alabama NAACP President Benard Simelton, he and the 15-20 other protesters will stay put until Sessions meets our demands or the arrest whichever he chooses.
Featured image via Twitter