A Colorado public school is facing the wrath of parents after they received an email urging them to bring their daughters to an event designed to turn them into pure Christian wives who submit to their husbands.Mesa Valley School District 51 sent an email to parents promoting an event called Wake Up Sleeping Beauty: Worship At His Feet, and includes a Bible verse from Luke 7:38 which seems to tell women and girls as young as 11-years-old to submit to their husbands.
The event also aims to train girls to remain pure until they find a husband.
In other words, indoctrinate them from a young age to hold strict religious views on sex, marriage, and gender roles.
As she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears.
Then she wiped them with her hair, kissed them and poured perfume on them.
A video posted on Wake Up Sleeping Beauty Facebook page suggests that fathers keep an eye on their daughters to make sure they remain virgins until marriage, and features a creepy image of a father watching his daughter put on makeup.A girl then praises the event Especially going through the time that I was, being cheated on.
That was really hard for me but it also made me realize a lot that I needed to forgive him and he didn t have the qualities I was looking for in a husband.
The image of a woman crying at a man s feet before wiping the tears dry with her hair was of particular concern to one parent.
The idea of a woman or girl crying at a man s feet, then using her hair to wash his feet, then kissing his feet, seems pretty demeaning to me.
Apparently the irony of this imagery used to promote an event which purports to strengthen or support girls/women is lost on all involved.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, it s also a violation of the Constitutional tenet of separation of church and state, because school officials used the district mailing system to promote a religious event.But District 51 Communications Specialist Jeannie Smith made a bullshit claim about the email not being religious at all.
Having reviewed the flyer and KHB-R per your request, we do not find that the flyer promotes a religious organization or demeans a person or group on the basis of gender, she wrote in an email to an angry parent.But the flyer did actually promote a religious event and a religious organization.
The program is put on by Wake Up Ministries, which is a religious organization.So, Mesa Valley School District 51 flat out lied to parents.Schools are supposed to protect our kids from religious organizations, but Mesa Valley school officials allowed their own email system to be hijacked for religious purpose in an effort to indoctrinate young girls to their beliefs.
It s outrageous and sickening.
Someone needs to lose their job for this.
At the very least, an independent investigation needs to be waged.Female students already have to put up with enough sexist bullshit from school officials as it is, particularly from unfair dress codes that blame teen girls for how boys act around them.
The last thing they need is a school that shoves religion down their throats.Featured Image: Pixabay