Republicans are once again putting their party before their country.
Just before the highly anticipated testimony from fired FBI Director James Comey, GOP Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Tom Cotton (R-AL) went scurrying down to the White House like good little Republican sycophants to have dinner with Donald Trump.Nevermind the optics of this, nevermind the fact that it is at best highly inappropriate to put themselves into a situation where Trump might try to lean on them to go in a certain direction with their questioning of Comey none of that mattered to these two sniveling weasels.
All they cared about was currying favor with their so-called president, and trying to cast him in as decent a light as possible.These slimy tactics showed in their lines of questioning of Comey on Thursday as well.
Instead of focusing on Comey s conversations with Trump, and on Trump s inappropriate, unethical, and possibly illegal behavior, Rubio decided to focus instead on leaks, saying to Comey: You know, this investigation is full of leaks, left and right.
Do you ever wonder why of all the things in this investigation the only thing that s never been leaked is the fact that the president was not personally under investigation, despite the fact that both Democrats and Republicans in the leadership of Congress knew that and have known that for weeks?
Comey, unfazed by Rubio s clear attempt to force him to make Trump look good, simply said, I don t know.
Here is video of that exchange:Cotton s tactics were even slimier.
He went after Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) regarding statements she had made regarding the Russia matter during television appearances months ago.
He reminded Comey and America that at the time, Senator Feinstein had said on national television that she saw no evidence of Team Trump having worked with the Russians.
Cotton then asked Comey how he felt about those statements.
Again, Comey didn t take the bait, and said: I don t doubt that Sen. Feinstein was saying what she understood.
Here is video of that exchange:Considering what we know about Trump s penchant for pressuring people, it is entirely possible that at that dinner, Rubio and Cotton made some kind of loyalty pledge.
It was clear from the questioning that these two Senators had one goal and one goal only: to clear Trump of any wrongdoing be it legally or for political benefit in the minds of the American public.So, there you have it, folks.
The GOP cares more about their party than they do their country.
They don t care if there are Russian stooges in the White House just since those stooges are members of their party.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images