Handwriting experts have noticed something very strange about Melania Trump s signature it look almost exactly like her husband s angular sharpie .It was first noticed after Melania sent a personal thank you note to actress and animal rights activist Pamela Anderson, who presented the First Lady with a faux fur coat.
Anderson posted the note on Twitter.
@flotus Dear Melania, Thank you for your sweet note.
It is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace.
Pamela pic.twitter.com/h9mmdqxp0h Pamela Anderson (@pamfoundation) May 3, 2017By contrast, here is Trump s signature.Image via Quartz Media.While the two signatures aren t identical, they both share some pretty striking similarities.As handwriting expert Sheila Kurtz told Yahoo, Hers looks just like his, which is absolutely amazing.
Both signatures have been described as spiky with thick black lines.There has been speculation about the unusual likeness, with Uproxx s Kimberly Ricci writing, Is President Trump answering his wife s letters?
Did he sign this letter and keep the coat as a fancy bathrobe?
Is he a fan of Baywatch?
Lots of questions need to be answered here.
Source: AOLTwitter didn t miss the similarities either:@pamfoundation @FLOTUS You ve been duped.
It appears Donald Trump signed it for Melania.
Either that or she s using Donald Trump s hand to sign it.
?
Rosaline (@NotYourDarling2) May 3, 2017@pamfoundation @FLOTUS Ummm that looks a lot like Donald s signature.
pic.twitter.com/TMb8dtu70i ((TrumpLies)) (@JustTheJune0101) May 3, 2017@pamfoundation @FLOTUS So weird that her sig is so much like Donny s. Freakishly weird.
Linrose ?#Resist (@Rosie909294) May 4, 2017@pamfoundation @FLOTUS Donald signed that.
Now he s posing as his wife?
kendal unruh (@unruhkendal) May 5, 2017There are several possible explanations, and all but one should send chills down the spines of feminists:1.
He is signing her name That would either indicate that Melania is completely illiterate, and even I don t believe that, or that she married a complete control freak.
Either way, doesn t he have something better to do than micromanage his wife s communications?2.
It s a stamp or a computer simulation While this is the most likely scenario, it s only slightly less disturbing.
If so, he clearly instructed someone to create a signature that was just.like.his.
so his wife would only be seen as an extension of him and his gawdawful style.
He s like one of those husbands who insists on a joint Facebook page.3.
She has been trained to have a signature that looks just like his Gross.4.
She actually has a signature that looks just like his.
Very weird, but not entirely creepy.The least he could let her do is use an elegant pen instead of a sharpie.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images.