The current occupant of the White House traveled overseas and met with President Andrzej Duda of Poland at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, then continued to embarrass our country by bashing the media, refusing to say outright that Russia meddled in our 2016 presidential election.
He then went on to tout his economy even though he s only been on the job for 167 days.On Thursday, the former reality show star Trump bragged about the U.S. economy, saying everyone else is getting rich.Trump spoke of U.S. stock market gains since he was elected, according to The Hill.
Personally, I ve picked up nothing, he said.
Everyone else is getting very rich.
That s ok, I m very happy.
On the 4th of July, Trump tweeted, Really great numbers on jobs & the economy!
Things are starting to kick in now, and we have just begun!
Don t like steel & aluminum dumping!
Really great numbers on jobs & the economy!
Things are starting to kick in now, and we have just begun!
Don't like steel & aluminum dumping!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 3, 2017While on the campaign trail, Trump said, I will be the greatest jobs producer that God ever created but that promise hasn t been kept.
594,000 jobs have been created since Trump took office and that s a dismal number if you compare it to Obama s record.
And of the jobs created by the Trump administration, most of those can be attributed to Obama s economy.
Businesses that were bleeding jobs unleashed the longest streak of job creation on record, Obama wrote in a letter to the American people.The economy added jobs for 75 straight months.As for Trump bragging about jobs, the US employment growth is actually slowing.Trump says he hasn t made money but that, too, is a lie.
Trump and his family members are shamelessly profiting from his so-called presidency.
Trump said that everyone is getting rich but a quick visit to my bank online just showed me that that is not true.For the record, 11.3 million new jobs were created under President Obama.
Trump did accomplish one thing, though.
He managed to disparage the U.S. media while on foreign soil.
That s got to be a first.Photo by Olivier Douliery Pool/Getty Images.