Steve Bannon, Trump s campaign CEO who was the editor-in-chief at right-wing rag Breitbart, apparently ordered his staff there to destroy Paul Ryan not too long after Ryan took over Boehner s mantle as Speaker of the House.
Some of this revelation comes courtesy of Michelle Fields, the Breitbart reporter who was thrown under the bus after she spoke out about Corey Lewandowski grabbing her.At Breitbart Bannon literally directed folks to destroy Ryan Hes prob so happy rn seeing Ryan too scared to unendorse a campaign hes running Michelle Fields (@MichelleFields) October 11, 2016For his part, Bannon seemed to have a habit of calling Ryan the enemy while on editorial conference calls, and even wrote an email that said: Long game is Ryan gone by spring.
This was back in December 2015, and now, Bannon s probably thinking they should step up their game after Ryan refused to campaign with Trump.
Compared to Trump and Bannon, Ryan is a paragon of human decency.
Like any decent human being, he was sickened by the leaked audio tape of Trump saying his celebrity status allowed him to grab women by the pussy.
Trump himself went nuts on Ryan on Twitter after Ryan condemned him, calling him weak and ineffective.
He also slammed the entire Republican Party for not standing by him in what his hour of need?
Do alpha males even have those?A former Breitbart employee also confirmed that Bannon used to tear into Paul Ryan all the time.
Bannon, apparently, can be at least as crazy as Alex Jones when it comes to conspiracy theories.
He had his own conspiracy theory about Ryan s succession to House Speaker: [Bannon] goes on these amazing rants.
He thinks Paul Ryan is part of a conspiracy with George Soros and Paul Singer, in which elitists want to bring one world government.
It also includes a belief that Ryan masterminded a failed plot to bring down Trump.
It s difficult to get more crazy than this, but this is the man who is Trump s campaign CEO.Of course, people who are close to both Trump and Bannon are framing this latest feud of butthurt as general anger with the establishment, and nothing more.
That seems to be an attempt to distance Trump from all the conspiracy nuts, and might be effective if Trump wasn t a conspiracy nut himself.This is probably why Trump wanted Bannon they re two peas in the crazy pod.
One of these days, these two idiots may actually figure out that they re the problem, and not everyone else.
But we shouldn t hold our breath for that.
Bannon also said that the campaign needs to bitch-slap the Republican Party.
If a moment of regret happens, it ll happen years in the future when they re on their deathbeds.Photo of Steve Bannon by Kirk Irwin/Getty Images for SiriusXM.
Photo of Paul Ryan by Win McNamee/Getty Images.
Images merged by Rika Christensen.