Notorious radical Black Panther and NJ cop killer, Assata Shakur has been living under the protection of President Fidel Castro for decades.
As Obama s time in office draws near (THANK GOD), the drum beat for her pardon by the Black Lives Matter terrorist organization is getting louder.
Meanwhile, as Obama prepares for his controversial and puzzling trip to Communist Cuba, we can t help but wonder if Assata Shakur might have something to do with his trip.
We also can t help but wonder if Beyonce and Jay Z s controversial trip to Cuba in 2013 was really about laying the groundwork for his visit.In April of 2013, Beyonce and Jay Z took a controversial anniversary trip to Cuba.
Since it was illegal for US citizens to travel to Cuba without the proper permission, many were wondering how the celebrities with close ties to the Obama s were able to pull off such a trip.
Many others were wondering about the purpose of the trip.According to Politico, the Treasury Department claimed it didn t know President Obama s pals would be among those experiencing cultural learning on this particular trip.The U.S. Treasury Department told POLITICO on Wednesday that while the department approved for the trip s organizers to travel to Cuba as part of a cultural learning experience, they were unaware that the couple would be attending, as it is department policy not to require organizers to provide a list of travelers.
There seems to be some confusion regarding how Beyonc and Jay-Z acquired visas to travel to Cuba.
Just days ago, Jay Carney evaded questions on the celebrities trip, RNC spokeswoman Alexandra Franceschi said in a public statement.
Any chance Jay Carney can clear up this confusion?
And of course, as the story got more coverage, another story emerged from the White House:As Obama gets ready to make his controversial trip to Communist Cuba, many of us are wondering if he has any plans to visit a certain terrorist who is near and dear to a group of people he s been working in tandem with to stir up a race war in America.
That certain terrorist in question is none other than cop killer, Joanne Chesimard, aka Assata Shakur.Joanne Chesimard, a left-wing militant who shot a state trooper on the New Jersey Turnpike 40 years ago today, has become the first woman on the FBI s list of Most Wanted Terrorists.
Joanne Chesimard is a domestic terrorist who murdered a law enforcement officer execution-style, said Aaron Ford, special agent in charge of the FBI s Newark Division.Chesimard, a fugitive living in Cuban under the name Assata Shakur, was a member of the Black Liberation Army in 1973 when she shot and killed Trooper Werner Foerster during a traffic stop.According to a state police account, Foerster was severely wounded in his right arm and abdomen and then executed with his own service weapon on the roadside.
Chesimard s jammed handgun was found at Foerster s side.
More than a mere member of these domestic terrorists, Chesimard was described by former assistant FBI director John Miller as the soul of the Black Liberation Army.
Chesimard, now 65, was convicted in 1977.
Two years later she escaped from the prison where she was serving a life sentence, spent time in a series of safe houses in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and fled in 1984 toCuba, where New Jersey State Police Col. Rick Fuentes said she flaunts her freedom.
To this day from her safe haven in Cuba Chesimard has been given a pulpit to preach and profess, stirring supporters and groups to mobilizeagainst the United States by any means necessary, Fuentes said.The reward for her capture and safe return has been doubled to $2 million.
We want her to come back here and face justice and serve out her sentence, New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa said.The FBI said Chesimard represents a supreme terror to the United States, though she is associated with no new threat.
Her supporters believe she was a target of law enforcement s campaign against the Black Panther movement in the 1960s and 1970s.
I was convicted by I don t even want to call it a trial, it was lynching, by an all-white jury, Chesimard told BET in 2001.
I had nothing but contempt for the system of justice under which I was tried.
The rapper Common told her story in A Song for Assata, which caused a stir after Michelle Obama invited him to a White House poetry slam two years ago.
ZVia: CNNHere are some of the lyrics to Open Letter Part II rapper Common wrote with Jay Z:[Verse 2: Common]Common Sense My man went to Cuba Caught in a political triangle, Bermuda The same way they said she was the shooter Assata Shakur, they tried to execute her I went to Cuba to see her We should free her, like we should Mumia Can t a nigga rap and make movies Y all see that Fox News tried to do me They say I m too black like it s lights out Might not get invited back to the White House Still with the Obamas, I ride I meet the president on the Southside March the streets, parade for peace Shorties keep shooting, they need a release Trying to eat in the belly of the beast I call her LeBron, they carrying the heat Y all gon learn today Like you re listening to Malcolm and MLK Media saying shit that ain t there But we fall down and get back up, Kevin Ware It s so political, I don t trust figures When it comes to revolution, this is us niggaOf course, Common s rap was in reference to Jay Z and Beyonce s controversial anniversary trip to Cuba.
Although the President and First Lady appear to have close ties with racist performers Jay Z and Beyonce, when the press pool asked former Spokesliar James Carney about the trip, he of course, claimed Obama had nothing to do with it:Meanwhile, President Obama ignored pleas that he demand Chesimard s return to face long-overdue justice before reopening diplomatic ties with Cuba.Convicted with Acoli, she escaped prison and has been on the lam since 1979, having made her way to Cuba five years later.Obama has a chance to make some amends on his Cuban tour next month by bringing Joanne Chesimard back with him in handcuffs.But will he bring her back in handcuffs or will he bring he back to live among law-abiding citizens as a payback to Black Lives Matter organizers who hold her up as a hero in their cop hating, blame whitey movement?
Call me a conspiracy theorist, but there are just too many curious occurrences that have taken place leading up to Obama s controversial trip to Cuba.
Obama s decision to reopen diplomatic ties with Cuba, Beyonce s divisive Super Bowl 2016 halftime tribute to racist, cop hating Black Panther group, and Obama s meeting with race agitators and Black Lives Matter terror group organizers all leading up to his curious visit to Cuba is well, shall we say a bit suspicious?Arguably, Obama s greatest achievement in life has been to divide our nation (in order of priority) by: race, gender, religion and social class.
And to date, there doesn t seem to be a law on our books that can prevent Obama from achieving his goals.
So, does it really seem like a stretch that Obama would find a way to return to the U.S. with Black Lives Matter hero and one of the FBI s Most Wanted felons, Joanne Chesimard, aka Assata Shakur riding next to him, sharing a good laugh on Air Force One?