Ever since his devastating, humiliating loss to Ted Cruz in Colorado, Donald Trump has been whining and moaning about the delegate process in a number of states, accusing the system of being crooked.
And just when he s been a little more silent on the issue, his supporters have decided to take up for him.On Monday, Ted Cruz was confronted by one of Trump s angry supporters while at a campaign stop in Indiana.
Nearly as soon as he stepped off his campaign bus, Trump fan Kathy Hiel approached and accused the Texas senator of playing establishment games and rigging the system, which Cruz denied.
The GOPer tried to remain civil in the face of pure idiocy, maintaining that the grassroots operations that were in place in states such as Colorado to win delegates were the exact opposite of the establishment.
Cruz also reminded Hiel that Trump was funding the Gang of 8, which Hiel dismissed, claiming that a few thousand isn t funding much of anything.
Cruz pointed out that he hadn t given anything.Hiel wasn t having it, and the exchange got heated.
As Hiel s attitude escalated, Cruz had to keep his distance and tell her, I ll have a respectful conversation with you.
You can watch the confrontation below:WATCH: @tedcruz has heated exchange with Trump supporter over delegate process: https://t.co/1bYiZ9lTn0https://t.co/jkT4BVN71A ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) April 25, 2016The exchange ended pretty much the way Trump would have ended an argument with Cruz: by Hiel saying that Cruz wasn t a natural-born citizen.
Cruz made sure to point out that if the tables had been turned and it was Trump being challenged by a voter about delegates, violence would have have likely ensued.After this confrontation, Hiel was interviewed by ABC News and criticized Cruz and Ohio Gov.
John Kasich for recently joining forces to try and defeat Trump.
Bashing the two candidates alliance and attempt to save the Republican party, Hiel said: With the collusion of Ted and the Republican Party and John Kasich I feel that they should both men should just step out.
They re just doing nothing but trying to hurt the front-runner when they actually don t have a chance of winning.
Featured image is a screenshot