Donald Trump s election was almost derailed in October when a video was released with Trump bragging about grabbing women by the pussy.
Unfortunately for the world, that wasn t a deal breaker for the 25 percent of Americans who voted for the demagogic self-described billionaire.
Since rumored sexual assault isn t a big enough deal to keep someone out of the White House, why not put more people who are accused of violence against women in, right?As Trump has named cabinet pick after cabinet pick, each worse than the one before them, the fact that each comes with a controversial past seems to bother no one on the right.Trump s pick for national security advisor is a white nationalist who tweeted this:U decide NYPD Blows Whistle on New Hillary Emails: Money Laundering, Sex Crimes w Children, etc MUST READ!
https://t.co/O0bVJT3QDr General Flynn (@GenFlynn) November 3, 2016His secretary of education hates schools.
His pick for the head of the Environmental Protection Agency doesn t believe the environment needs protecting and (how s this for draining the swamp?)
his treasure secretary pick is a former Goldman Sachs exec you know one of the companies that crashed the economy.
It gets worse, though.
According to Alternet, three of Trump s key team members have been accused of sexually or otherwise violently assaulting women.The first is the charmer, Steve Bannon.
In a 1996 report, the white supremacist and former head of Breitbart was accused by his then wife of grabbing her by the neck during an argument.
He was charged with domestic violence, misdemeanor witness intimidation and traumatic injury and battery.
The charges were dropped, though, because his wife didn t show up for court.This one will probably surprise few.
Trump s pick for labor secretary is fast food CEO Andrew Puzder.
His restaurants include Hardee s and Carl s Jr., both of which are known for scantily clad women in near pornographic situations in their ads.
During their divorce, Puzder s ex-wife accused him of attacking her three times, including punching her when they were riding in a car.Then, in 1986, Henning said Puzder attacked me, choked me, threw me to the floor, hit me in the head, pushed his knee into my chest, twisted my ar m and dr agged me on the floor, threw me against a wall, tried to stop my call to 911 and kicked me in the back.
Source: NY MagazinePuzder responded to a reporter who asked him about the incident in a way that sounds a lot like his soon to be boss.
He issued a thinly veiled threat against the reporter: There was no physical abuse at any point in time.
If ever something was filed to gain personal benefit, this is it.
If you re trying to smear me by raising the fact that my ex-wife made some charges against me, you re making a big mistake.
It would not be good journalistic practice to publish this.
Puzder s ex-wife has withdrawn the charges.Trump has also had numerous charges of sexual assault levied against him, beginning with his ex-wife Ivana.
All told, Trump has been accused by about a dozen women, all of which he threatened to sue.
As I said before, though, Trump s supporters don t care.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images