For a crash course in why reality television star Donald Trump is unfit to be the next President of the United States, one only needs to look through his Twitter history.
Unfortunately, the less intelligent Americans in our country (aka conservatives) have a very different take on the immature attacks that Trump spews on a daily basis with his tiny orange fingers, and their reasoning is painful to listen to.CNN host Chris Cuomo had his brain melted by Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) on New Day on Wednesday morning when he dared to ask Collins what he thought about Trump s recent onslaught of tweets against the New York Times, who Trump has been blasting for making him look bad.TwitterCuomo asked if this was presidential behavior: Do you think that this is a healthy way for him to govern going forward?
Collins, who was the first member of Congress to give Trump his endorsement, gave an answer that took Cuomo by complete surprise when he shrugged Trump s behavior off and said it was just the President-elect s way of relaxing.
Well, I can tell you this, the pressure that has got to be on President-elect Trump is immense.
The enormity of the job ahead of him, and so I would have to say if this is his way of relaxing, god bless him.
Cuomo fired back, Relaxing?!
in complete disbelief.
Collins said: Absolutely.
If this is what he has some fun with and he finds this relaxing, and his entertainment, let him go with it.
Uh isn t a President supposed to be more concerned with running a country than entertainment ?
Apparently not, according to Collins: I would not second-guess anything he s doing that he would use to make himself call it unwinding, relaxing, and I think that s part of it.
It s Donald Trump being Donald Trump.
You don t want this stuff all bottled up.
So frankly I don t have a problem with this in the least.
I think America actually wants to continue to see a real human being in the White House, and I put this in to the you know, this is his way of unwinding, and taking some stress off.
So I think it s a good thing.
Absolutely terrifying.
Trump has already gone back on his promise that he would be very restrained on Twitter now that he s going to be President, making it clear that he lacks self-control.
And as expected, Republicans don t have the backbone to stand up to him for the good of the country.You can watch Collins shock Cuomo with his stupidity below:Featured image via screenshot