The audio of Hillary Clinton laughing about getting a child rapist a lighter sentence is pretty shocking for a couple of reasons: The accent on Hillary is very different from the many other accents she s presented to the public.
It s strange because she s from Illinois!
What the heck!
Check it out and tell us what you think.
The other thing that s so shocking is Hillary s blatant disregard for the victim in this case.
It s actually really sickening to hear her speak of the 12-year old with such disregard.
It s rare that we get a glimpse into the REAL Hillary so here it is in all its glory pretty scary huh?A child rape victim says she cannot forgive Hillary Clinton for defending her rapist in court 40 years ago, saying the Democratic presidential candidate attacked her credibility despite knowing that her assailant was guilty and later laughed about it in a taped interview.Kathy Shelton was just 12 years old when a 41-year-old drifter raped her on the side of a desolate Arkansas road in 1975.Now, four decades later, she has agreed to be named and pictured for the first time in this Daily Mail Online exclusive because she is furious that her rapist s defense attorney Hillary Clinton has been portraying herself as a lifelong advocate of women and girls on the campaign trail.
It s put a lot of anger back in me, said Shelton, now 54, in an exclusive interview at her Springdale, Arkansas, home in August.
Every time I see [Clinton] on TV I just want to reach in there and grab her, but I can t do that.
In 1975, Clinton served as the defense lawyer for Thomas Alfred Taylor, a 41-year-old factory worker accused of raping Shelton after luring her to his car.Taylor pleaded down to unlawful fondling of a minor and served less than a year in prison after Clinton was able to block the admission of forensic evidence that linked her client to the crime.In a lengthy interview with the Daily Mail Online, Shelton said Clinton is lying when she claims to be a lifelong defender of women and girls.
HILLARY LAUGHS WHEN DISCUSSING GETTING CHILD RAPIST OFF WITH LIGHT SENTENCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tor00iWUhDQRead more: Daily Mail