When Sarah Palin blamed President Obama for her son s domestic violence charges pretty much everyone slammed her for it, including the veterans she referred to in her rant against the Commander-in-Chief.
It s not only utterly inaccurate to blame Obama for the actions of her son, but it s actual pretty petty and a definitely a cheap jab at the expense of both the president and veterans.One person who has never held back from roasting Sarah Palin is Real Time host Bill Maher.
On Friday s edition of his show, he and his guests discussed Track Palin as well as his mother s lame defense of him.
Basically, Maher pointed out that she shifted blame from herself and her obvious horrific parenting skills.
After all, she has one daughter with two different baby daddies, and a son who has a history of violent outbursts and run-ins with the law.Maher spoke directly about Palin s ridiculous defense of her son, and also discussed the way she s trying to somehow insinuated Post Traumatic Stress Disorder was the cause of all her son s problems.
He stated: [She] just glossed over that.
Like, we accept that now.
We send our sons off to stupid wars and they come back a bit different, because he beat up his girlfriend, was talking suicide.
And she blamed that on Obama.
That s why I m sure his girlfriend was cowering under the bed because of Obama.
Her daughter has had two out-of-wedlock children.
I mean, does it ever occur to anybody that the Obamas are just so much better parents?
And the Obama s most certainly are.
One look at the Obama girls and they are pretty much the embodiment of the near perfection.
The Obamas keep those girls in check, and they are definitely well-behaved.Maher also pointed out that it probably won t matter what Palin says or does, because when it comes to the folks who actually find her as qualified to hold a valid opinion, they basically just look at religion: She s the worst It s the most morally sloppy person going to Iowa to convince the evangelicals the supposedly moral people to vote?
That s why faith sucks so bad.
Because when you have the same faith as me, then whatever you do is off the table, right?
Here s the thing, if Palin s son does suffer from PTSD, she definitely has the resources to get him help.
PTSD also shouldn t be used as a political chew toy to throw around and take jabs at a sitting president because you have nothing else constructive to say.
Palin was trying to shift blame from her son and herself to that of the president and the war.
It s not just wrong, it s kind of sad.Video/Featured image: YouTube