Between Hollywood and our elected officials, it s hard to keep track of who has the worst record when it comes to being a disgusting hypocrite When President Trump was running for office, Alabama s Republican Governor Robert Bentley was one of the first politicians to announce that he would not support him over the exposed private conversation he had with a guy on a bus about a woman.
He proudly claimed his support would be given to Governor Kashich of Ohio AP Bentley comments came as state Alabama U.S. Reps. Martha Roby and Bradley Byrne, on Saturday called for Trump to step aside from the GOP ticket.
Trump is under fire for his remarks about him groping women in a 2005 recording.Roby was one of the first Republicans to speak out against Trump on Saturday, leading what would soon be a chorus of voices against the GOP nominee.
Now, it is abundantly clear that the best thing for our country and our party is for Trump to step aside and allow a responsible, respectable Republican to lead the ticket, Roby said in a statement.
Hillary Clinton must not be president, but, with Trump leading the ticket she will be.
But that was yesterday before anyone knew what a hypocrite scumbag Governor Bentley was.In June 2014, Alabama Gov.
Robert Bentley and first lady Dianne Bentley agreed to a divorce settlement, ending their 50-year marriage, the governor s office said Monday.The settlement was filed just four weeks after the first lady filed for divorce, saying their marriage had suffered an irretrievable breakdown.
The governor said he has asked a judge to unseal the case file so the public and media can see it.
CBS NewsAfter a tumultuous day in Montgomery, Governor Robert Bentley has resigned from office.
The time has come for me to look at new ways to serve the people of our great state.
I have decided it is time for me to step down as Alabama s governor.
This comes hours after a House committee began impeachment hearings, and about one hour after Bentley was booked in the Montgomery County Jail on misdemeanor charges.
He pleaded guilty to the charges.