The United States as we know it is over at least that s the prediction by Norwegian professor Johan Galtung, who s known as the man who predicted the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Why is our country over?
Because of Donald Trump.Galtung has been predicting the demise of the U.S. as a superpower since 2000.
Back then, he said it would come in 2025.
That was before George W. Bush took office, though.
That presidency sped up the inevitable, according to Galtung, by five years.
Trump s election is going to speed it up even more.He told Motherboard the election of Mr. Trump speeds up the decline , although he qualified the statement, saying: Of course, what he does as a President remains to be seen.
Source: IndependentOne of the pressing issues with Trump is his nationalism, and in particular, his hostility toward NATO.
The collapse has two faces, Dr Galtung told the tech news site, Other countries refuse to be good allies and the USA has to do the killing themselves, by bombing from high altitudes, drones steered by computer from an office, special forces killing all over the place.
Both are happening today, except for Northern Europe, which supports these wars, for now.
That will probably not continue beyond 2020, so I stand by that deadline.
Naturally, not everyone agrees.
Yet Xenia Wickett, who heads the US and Americas program at the think tank called Chatham House said that the mere fact that the United States has the largest military and some great universities will protect our superpower status for a long time.Remember, though, that this has been a year of odd predictions coming true.
Despite the media and the predictions of nearly every pundit, one professor, a professor who has a track record of predicting elections, predicted Donald Trump would win.As for our military and intellectual prowess, well, Trump intends to boost military spending while decreasing tax collection.
That is a quick way to bankruptcy.
And, as this year s election has shown, we can no longer lay claim to intellectual superiority.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images