In a video uploaded to Facebook earlier this week, a group of students from Grosse Pointe, Michigan can be heard talking about what they would do to Black people if they were president.As reported by New York Daily News the students recorded the video over Memorial Day weekend.In the video a male student can be heard talking about his hatred for Black people, calling them f g stupid and worthless.
The student goes on to say, they need to leave our country, send em back to Africa, or the slaves, one of the two options.
Another student asks, So what are you going to do in 2040, referring to the year he ll become president of the United States.The first student replies, Oh, segregate.
They get Maine, North and South Dakota, Montana, Wyoming Another student asks, How are they going to be treated?
Awful, he responds, saying, they re going to be owned by white people, and white people are going to be the dominants of the country.
Another student says We re gonna burn them on stakes.
No, no, no, no, the first student replies.
We re gonna put like a pole with those little burning things at the end and stab em so you can know who the owner is and you can sell those bitches.
You can trade em for like cock points and shit, bro.
And you can get alcohol for that shit.
After another student asks if there s anything else they re going to do, the first student adds, We re not gonna put em in coffins, we re gonna put em in a river and let em swim to the Atlantic Ocean.
WXYZ in Detroit reports that the students attend Grosse Pointe s South High School.
School officials sent a notice out to parents regarding the video.
The notice mentions possible suspensions.
It appears that the video has since been removed from social media.
New York Daily News published a partial transcript here.In March South High School officials suspended a different group of students over racist posts on social media.It s not hard to trace the inspiration for the hateful ideas expressed by these students.When Donald Trump is the republican party s current frontrunner in the presidential primary, it shouldn t come as a surprise to anyone to hear young people talking about the vile things they would do if they became president.Grosse Pointe, a suburb of Detroit, has never been lacking in racist role models for students to emulate, either.
In 2013, more than a dozen videos were released showing Grosse Pointe police officers telling Black men to sing, dance and walk like a chimp, for the camera.These students have been influenced by republican politicians like L Brooks Patterson.In 2014, Patterson proposed building a fence around the city of Detroit to keep Black people in, saying: I made a prediction a long time ago and it s come to pass.
I said what we re gonna do is turn Detroit into an Indian reservation, where we herd all the Indians into the city, build a fence around it and then throw in the blankets and the corn.
When students look around and see politicians, police officers and even presidential candidates spewing this kind of vile hate speech, we should not be surprised when they do the same.
These are the people impressionable young people are supposed to be able to look up to and emulate.We should gravely consider what the US will become tomorrow if we fail to hold the people in power accountable for their hateful words and actions today.Here s more on the story from Fox 2 in Detroit.Image credit: Video screen capture Fox 2