The whole world is laughing at us after we kinda-sorta elected (since the opinion of the majority of Americans are meaningless under our current electoral system, which was introduced to keep slave owning states happy) largely thanks to the influence of Russian hackers directed by Putin and the FBI through James Comey a man to office who is, frankly, an idiot.While Donald Trump denies that Russia had any influence in our election and chooses to instead attack the intelligence agencies that have confirmed not only that, but that Putin personally directed it all, the Russian people are having a field day with the fact that we ve managed to elect someone so stupid that he allows their leader to play him like a fiddle.Asked about Putin s recent letter to Trump (that one that spurred Trump to say he is so correct ), Russia expert Nina Khrushcheva told MSNBC Saturday that The Donald is playing right into Putin s hands.
I was just in Moscow and the Russians are saying Look at those fools, look at their democracy.
Absolutely, she said.
How could America lecture us on any development, institutions, human rights, democracy, rhetoric when they just elected Donald Trump.
He s such a fool.
He s such a bully.
That s what America deserves and we re going to take advantage of it.
And that s how Russians feel about it, and now it s taking shape with letters from Vladimir Putin to Donald Trump with their exchange on potential nuclear armament and whatnot.
Asked to weigh in on whether or not Trump would hinder an investigation into his cozy relationship with Putin and his talented team of hackers, intelligence analyst Malcolm Nance explained that he absolutely would interfere with the investigation faster than Putin interfered with our election: I don t think there will be any accountability with the regards of the Russian hacking against the DNC or even violating the entirety of the U.S. electoral process.
He has benefited from that.
He s going to shut down any investigation if it implicates him or his campaign.
However, Nina is righ.
We are being played as fools by a spymaster-in-chief, a former KGB officer, Director of Russian Intelligence.
He s laughing at us in his letters which stroke Donald Trump.
His excellency!
We haven t had a letter like that in the United States since King George III.
As long as Trump is manipulated, Russia and China will take our market share from the international markets out there, and the United States will be relegated to a third class country.
Trump taking office is terrifying for a number of reasons and we re going to have to rely on the Republican Party to stop him.
May Cthulhu help us all.Watch the segment below:Featured image via screengrab