UPDATE: A leading Supreme Court analyst thinks Attorney General Loretta Lynch is the most likely candidate to replace the late conservative Justice Antonin Scalia.Tom Goldstein, who runs the influential SCOTUSblog, had earlier predicted Ninth Circuit Judge Paul Watford would make the top of President Obama s shortlist.
But in a revised blog post, Goldstein said he now believes Lynch is the leading contender.Lynch is a very serious possibility, Goldstein wrote.
The fact that Lynch was vetted so recently for attorney general also makes it practical for the president to nominate her in relatively short order.
Via: NBC NewsSocial media users beware!
You ve been warned by Obama s henchwoman, Attorney General Loretta Lynch The day after a horrific shooting spree by a radicalized Muslim man and his partner in San Bernardino, California, Attorney General Loretta Lynch pledged to a group of Muslim activists that she would take aggressive action against anyone who used anti-Muslim rhetoric that edges toward violence.
Speaking to the audience at the Muslim Advocate s 10th anniversary dinner Thursday, Lynch said her greatest fear is the incredibly disturbing rise of anti-Muslim rhetoric in America and vowed to prosecute any guilty of what she deemed violence-inspiring speech.
She said:The fear that you have just mentioned is in fact my greatest fear as a prosecutor, as someone who is sworn to the protection of all of the American people, which is that the rhetoric will be accompanied by acts of violence.
My message to not just the Muslim community but to the entire American community is: we cannot give in to the fear that these backlashes are really based on.Assuring the pro-Muslim group that we stand with you, Lynch said she would use her Justice Department to protect Muslims from violence and discrimination.Claiming that violence against Muslims is on the rise and citing France s clamp down on potentially radicalized mosques, Lynch suggested the Constitution does not protect actions predicated on violent talk and pledged to prosecute those responsible for such actions.
When we talk about the First Amendment we [must] make it clear that actions predicated on violent talk are not American, said Lynch.
They are not who we are, they are not what we do, and they will be prosecuted.
My message not just to the Muslim community but to all Americans is We cannot give in to the fear that these backlashes are really based on,' said Lynch.It is painfully clear that, like her predecessor Eric Holder, Lynch is far more concerned with promoting the social justice agenda than protecting the Constitutional rights of American citizens.
What exactly is speech that edges toward violence ?
What exactly are actions predicated on violent talk ?
In the end, it is whatever she decides it to mean.
Via: Daily Wire