Earlier this year, Presidential hopeful Jeb Bush was asked a question regarding domestic protests in Baltimore and Ferguson, which were tied to predatory policing of African-Americans that led to murder-by-cop.Via Think Progress:During a Q & A with employees of the pharmaceutical company Nephron, his response to a question about teachers unions veered into his thoughts on the origins of the mass protests in Ferguson and Baltimore.
Kids in this country are aimlessly wandering around in their lives because they ve never been told they were capable of learning, Bush said.
They ve never been challenged to achieve far better.
They ve never really had the kind of mentoring and nurturing that gives them the sense their lives could be better.
You see what happens in Baltimore and Ferguson.
You see the tragedies play out.
You see people becoming so despondent they take actions that are horrific.
Jeb is with a slightly softer wording than some using the same old white privilege-ridden Republican response to criminal issues that are a part of the African-American community blame the parents.Fast forward 7 months later:During an interview with CBS Miami, the topic of Jeb s daughter Noelle came up.
Jeb was asked by the interviewer about his daughter s criminal past and multiple issues with drugs.
The interviewer specifically asked if Jeb felt that during his time away from home campaigning and during his tenure as Governor, if he didn t have enough time for his family and if that made him feel personally responsible for his daughter s problems.Listen to Jeb s incredibly hypocritical response in the video below via CBS Miami: I can t blame myself.
That s not gonna solve any problems, and you just can t do that.
Jeb can t blame himself for choosing not to be around for his family when his daughter was engaging in criminal drug activity.
However, as you saw above, if you are black and live in a city that means it s YOUR family s fault if you engage in any immoral or illegal activity.Here is some history on Jeb s daughter.
In 2002, Noelle was arrested when she tried to forge a Xanax prescription in Tallahassee.
A judge sentenced her to rehab.
In July 2002, she was jailed for three days for violating her probation by breaking the rules of her rehab program.
In October 2002, Noelle was jailed again for 10 more days when she was found in possession of crack cocaine while in the rehab center.
In 2003, she finally completed the program and has had a cushy job at one of daddy s companies ever since.These are 3 crimes that were drug related in less than one year.
She spent less thantwo weeks in jail total for all of it.It s relevant to know that during Jeb s first year as Florida governor he signed a law increasing mandatory minimums for drug offenses and for minors, including a 3-year minimum for as little as 4 grams of heroin.
He also blocked the implementation of treatment instead of jail for nonviolent drug offenses.
Bush also opposed a ballot measure that would have allowed 10,000 drug offenders to leave jail and enroll in treatment programs.
Somehow Jeb s daughter avoided this mandatory minimum sentencing minefield.One final bit of annoyance Jeb s son George P. Bush was also arrested for breaking and entering his ex-girlfriend s home while drunk when he was 18 years old.
He walked when charges were not pressed.What an elitist Republican jerk Jeb Bush really showed his capacity for hypocrisy and contempt for other people by excusing himself for his families problems, while laying ALL the problems African-American people encounter in life squarely on their parents shoulders.Featured image via Flickr