Just a week after the horrific shooting in Orlando, Florida that killed 49 people in a gay nightclub, the Senate finally took up a vote on gun violence.
Actually, this happens after every major mass shooting, and like with every major mass shooting, the NRA won.Four bills have gone down in a predictable and fiery death.The first bill was proposed by Republican Senator Chuck Grassley (Iowa) and Democrats voted against it because it didn t go far enough and because it could actually put more guns into the wrong people s hands.Democrats opposed the legislation because it does not expand the types of gun sales that require background checks, and they said some provisions could make it easier for mentally ill individuals to buy guns.Source: USA TodayOnly 53 Senators voted for the bill, and while that may have been enough in another time, today, nothing passes the Senate without a filibuster proof majority of 60 votes.The second bill to go down was proposed by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California).
It would have allowed the Justice Department to stop people who are on the terrorist watch list from purchasing guns.
This one is also backed by President Obama.Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., called the Republican measures political stunts and said they are meaningless in doing something to stop gun violence.
These are amendments to divert attention from real legislation, Reid said.
Why?
So Republicans (can) say Hey, look, we tried, and all the time their cheerleaders, their bosses at the NRA, are cheering.
The third bill, which also went down in a blaze of glory, is an amendment by Senator Chris Murphy (D-Connecticut), who wants to close the gun show loophole and require everyone who wants to buy a gun to go through a background check.The fourth bill was written by Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) and would give a three day waiting period for people who have been investigated for terrorism within the last five years.
Of course, with no funding for background checks, nothing could go wrong, right?This is a dance the Senate that happens after every mass shooting, and the result is always the same gridlock.
All the bills were defeated along party lines.
This, despite the fact that the majority of their constituents want stricter gun control.Featured image via Getty Images.