Trump really needs his Twitter account permanently suspended, or someone needs to find a way to permanently lock him out of the platform.
His tweets claiming credit for job creation he had nothing to do with, plus his blasting companies when they don t do what he wants, and his threat of a 35 percent border tax, has businesses terrified of ending up on his radar.And how are they responding?
By repeating job announcements, or preemptively announcing new jobs and investments in the U.S., as if they are new developments, in order to appease Trump and generate fake news about new jobs.
After Trump blasted Toyota on his Twitter account, the industry was nervous and wondering who was next.Toyota Motor said will build a new plant in Baja, Mexico, to build Corolla cars for U.S. NO WAY!
Build plant in U.S. or pay big border tax.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 5, 2017He s gone after Lockheed-Martin and Boeing, too, plus others.
Kristin Dziczek, a spokeswoman for the Center for Automotive Research said: Pretty much everybody is dreading being the subject of a tweet.
Getting hauled out into the court of public opinion with virtually no warning is not something anybody wants to get engaged with.
So they re doing the only thing they can think of to do.
They re appeasing him.
They ve been cowed.
They ve been bullied.
They ve been intimidated and coerced and it s ridiculous and disgusting.Most of the things they re announcing in the way of investment and job creation are things that are years in the making.
For instance, GM admitted that they accelerated their plans under pressure from Trump, but those plans very likely date back to 2014.And GM has been bringing jobs back to the U.S. for years already.Walmart s plans are their usual annual plans.
Sprint s jobs were part of an older promise from their parent company to create 50,000 jobs in the U.S. And Bayer and Monsanto, if they re allowed to merge, will be investing and spending what they already invest and spend here.Still, though, Trump has the entire corporate world running scared.
If they were running scared in the right ways, this might actually be good.
When they re acting because they re afraid of the president and his Twitter account, there s a serious problem.The automakers have started to time their announcements so that they appear to be Trump s doing, for the sole purpose of staying out of his line of fire.
Other companies will probably start following suit, if for no other reason than to avoid having their reputations and stocks tank because Trump had a snit on Twitter.Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images