Brilliant conservative and American Thinker contributor, Patricia Dickson tweeted a portion of a file that was released today in the JFK files.
Her tweet showed a document that appears to prove that former Democrat President Lyndon B. Johnson was a member of the Klan in Texas during the early days of his political career.
The JFK Files reveal that Democrat President LBJ was a member of the Klan.
pic.twitter.com/NoOJLWAlDp Patricia Dickson (@Patrici15767099) October 27, 2017Dinesh D Souza was quick to respond to Dickson s tweet, saying: If this is true, LBJ becomes the third Democratic President to be either a member or avid supporter of the Ku Klux Klan.
If this is true, LBJ becomes the third Democratic President to be either a member or avid supporter of the Ku Klux Klan https://t.co/2gX4i6fDc0 Dinesh D'Souza (@DineshDSouza) October 28, 2017In Dinesh D Souza s movie, Hillary s America , the ugly truth was revealed about the Democrat Party, and how throughout the history of the United States Democrats have been responsible for slavery and for much of the racism blacks have experienced in America.In his movie, D Souza interviewed Vanderbilt professor Carol Swain.
Swain made her own video about the Inconvenient Truth about The Democratic Party that s been viewed 1.8 million times.
When you think about racial equality and civil rights, which political party comes to mind, the Republican s or the Democrat s?
Most people would probably say the Democrats.
But that answer isn t correct.Since its founding in 1829, the Democratic Party has fought against every major civil rights initiative, and has a long history of discrimination.
The Democratic Party defended slavery, started the Civil War, opposed reconstruction, founded the Ku Klux Klan, imposed segregation, perpetrated lynching and fought against the Civil Rights Acts of the 1950 s and 1960 s. In contrast, the Republican Party was founded in 1854 as an anti-slavery party.
Its mission was to stop the spread of slavery into the new western territory with the aim of abolishing it entirely.
Dickson reminded Twitter users that the Republican Party was formed for the sole purpose of ending slavery.No Republican owned slaves because the Republican Party was formed for the sole purpose of ending slavery.
https://t.co/vv3jaQ62QJ Patricia Dickson (@Patrici15767099) October 28, 2017