Meet Keegan Stephan.
He could be Barack Obama s son.
He s a community agitator with a sizable following on Twitter, who appears to get a thrill out of organizing Occupy re-treads and Ferguson holdovers to create hate and division in NYC.
His primary focus for now, appears to be creating hate and mistrust for the entire New York Police Department through a campaign of propaganda.Occupy re-tread, Hillary supporter and #BlackLivesMatter activist Keegan Stephan s Twitter feed is filled with misleading propaganda which includes video footage that appears to be staged to make it look like a protestor was assaulted by a New York Police Officer.
Notice the title of the vine video posted by Keenan: This is what happened to my friend Elsa.
Watch the cop shove her.
#ShutDownA14 Listen to the narrator of the video refer to the person being assaulted by the police officer (or more likely, a fellow protestor) as he.
The narrator states: This protestor was shoved to the ground by an officer.
He appeared to be injured.
And here is the vine he used to show here being assaulted:Just before posting the vine (above), Keegan tweeted about this picture, saying: NYPD broke my friend Elsa s ribs by slamming her on the sidewalk.
Didn t arrest her, just left her.
#ShutDownA14So which one is it Keegan?
Was the person who was assaulted by an evil NY Police Officer a he or a she?
A proud Hillary supporter (that should come as no surprise given his penchant for lying), Keegan posts pictures of the vandalized signs that were posted all over NYC mocking Hillary Clinton:Keegan posted some additional footage from the Occupy the Brooklyn Bridge/#BlackLivesMatter event that appears to by more false propaganda.
Keegan has this to say about the vine video below: Members of the press running scared from the NYPD.
#ShutDownA14 First of all where the heck are the press?
Secondly, pay close attention to the man with the large camera who doesn t seem to be in on the staged hoax, as he keeps looking behind to see what these people are running from but can t seem to find anyone chasing them.Meanwhile, according the New York Daily News, cops are hunting for two demonstrators who pummeled an off-duty NYPD sergeant during the #ShutDownA14 protest against police brutality.
The 4:45 p.m. attack on Sgt.
David Cuce, who was on the Brooklyn Bridge heading into Manhattan, occurred as hundreds of demonstrators spread from Union Square Park to lower Manhattan and across the East River to protest police violence in the wake of a fatal April 4 shooting in South Carolina involving an unarmed black man.Cuce, who was not in uniform, was punched in the head and shoulder by one of the two protestors after he exited his car to investigate the demonstration, which had brought traffic on the historic bridge to a standstill.
After a brief fight, Cuce drew his service weapon and identified himself as a police officer, officials said.
His attackers fled into the crowd and remain at large.
In addition to the attack, police arrested 42 demonstrators for a smattering of misdemeanors following the protest, officials said.Here s what Keenan had to say about the 42 demonstrators who were arrested:How about They punched an off duty NY Police Officer in the head who was simply driving across the bridge and got out of his vehicle to see why the traffic was stopped?
And last, but certainly not least, Keegan makes a brilliant <sarcasm> analogy on Easter weekend comparing Jesus with the angry Ferguson/Garner protestors: And no Easter weekend would be complete without a cop hater comparing Eric Garner to the crucifixion of Jesus Christ:This is what we re up against America.
These protests are not spontaneous, they re orchestrated and they re funded by wealthy radicals and unions whose primary objective is to divide Americans by class and race.
No justice no peace I don t know how old Keegan is, but I m guessing he s old enough to remember this scene from 9-11, where there was no shortage of good cops who risked their lives for total strangers:This photo is just a subtle reminder Keegan, that not all cops are bad cops