The right is giddy over the fact that President Obama s Kenyan half-brother Malik says he plans to vote for Donald Trump.
They shouldn t be.
His reasons for voting for the braggadocios billionaire are even worse than the reasons for most Americans.Malik Obama lives in Kenya, but he is eligible to vote in the United States because he sometimes lives in Maryland and he worked there.
Rupert Murdoch s New York Post claims that Malik is registered to vote in the United States.Malik is the oldest of the Obama brothers; he s related through their father, but the two men have different mothers.
The older Obama, 58, has spent most of his life as a Democrat, but likes Trump s slogan of Mak(ing) America Great Again.
He doesn t like Hillary Clinton s email scandal, and he has more than one personal bone to pick with his younger brother.About Trump: I like Donald Trump because he speaks from the heart, Malik Obama told The Post from his home in the rural village of Kogelo.
Make America Great Again is a great slogan.
I would like to meet him.
About Hillary Clinton and the email situation: She should have known better as the custodian of classified information, said Obama.The third reason makes one question whether Malik had been a Democrat at all.
The man who reportedly has as many as 12 wives hates the idea of marriage equality.
I feel like a Republican now because they don t stand for same-sex marriage, and that appeals to me, he said.Then, it gets a bit more personal.
The elder Obama says that he was close, personal friends with ousted and assassinated dictator, Muammar Gaddafi.
I still feel that getting rid of Khadafy didn t make things any better in Libya, he said.
My brother and the secretary of state disappointed me in that regard.
Malik has an even more personal beef with his brother.
It s about money.
Malik is in charge of the Barack H. Obama Foundation, which named after the Obamas father.
The foundation was set up to help people in their native village in Kenya, but it hadn t registered with the state of Virginia, from which it was run.
Shortly after the story became public, the IRS approved the foundation s tax exempt status.
Fingers pointed at President Obama, but Malik insists his brother didn t help at all, and for that, he seems to resent him.
My brother didn t help me at all, said Obama.
He wanted me to shut it down when I set it up.
He hasn t supported me at all.
Oh, and the President also refused to intervene in his older brother s foray into politics, when he ran for governor of his Kenyan county.
Malik partly blames his brother for his loss.Here s the video:Trump, in the meantime, is loving it.
Wow, President Obama s brother, Malik, just announced that he is voting for me.
Was probably treated badly by president-like everybody else!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 24, 2016None of this should be terribly surprising.
Despite the fact that the two men were best men at each others weddings, Malik got on the birther train.
He even questioned whether the President actually shared a father with him.
Of course, we can also go birther, asking if Malik is actually registered to vote.Featured image via New York Post screenshot.