The Book of Leviticus is often cited by conservative Christians as examples of biblical law the nation must obey.
Ted Cruz, however, doesn t practice what he preaches.According to Leviticus 19:11: Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another.
But that is exactly what the Texas Tea Party Senator did during a face to face interview with David Brody on the Christian Broadcasting Network.The interview addressed Cruz s past failure to tithe, an obligation important to the evangelical community in which Christians are required to give at least ten percent of their income to the church as set by the Bible.
It s especially important to the pastors in the movement who need those hard-earned dollars to enrich themselves.And if Cruz wants the support of evangelical voters, you would think he would be honest and explain himself satisfactorily, or at the very least, beg for forgiveness.
But not only did Cruz tell a fabricated story to cover his ass, he did so right in the face of a Christian journalist and all the Christians watching.
Listen on the question of tithing, all of us are on a faith journey, and I will readily admit that I have not been as faithful in this aspect of my walk as I should have been, Cruz said.
That article focuses on ten years ago.
We don t have the ability to go back and change what occurred ten years ago when Heidi and I were newly married and we d just started a family.
But at the end of the day, being a Christian is not about holding yourself out as righteous.
It s about beginning with the understanding that we are flawed sinners and we are saved not by deeds but by Christ s redemption.
I am grateful that God is a patient and forgiving God and this area, as in many areas of my life I am working to do a better job walking in my faith.
Here s the video via CBN.Mediaite s Tommy Christopher, who grew up in a fundamentalist household, fact-checked Cruz s story and discovered that it is nothing more than a tall tale.The story he references, first of all, doesn t focus on ten years ago, it covers Ted s tax returns for a five-year period that ended five years ago.
From 2006 to 2010, Ted Cruz made $5,064,248.00 and gave $44,000.00 to charity.
That s 0.86% of his income, or about 8.6% of a tithe.
In 2006, when Cruz made only $350 grand, he and Heidi weren t newly married, they d been married for five years, and they weren t starting a family, they didn t have kids until 2008.In other words, the story Ted Cruz gave about he and his wife being something of a struggling couple with mouths to feed is bullshit.
He made more money in five years than most Americans do in a lifetime, yet he couldn t be bothered to share his wealth with the church community he has been aggressively pandering to over the years.
If Cruz had followed the general rule, his tithing would have totaled $500,000 over those five years.Once again, Ted Cruz gets caught being a liar and a total hypocrite.Featured Image: Nation of Change