Despite not having any time to attend critical press conferences, President-elect Donald Trump has more than enough time to devote to his weird Thank You Tour to celebrate his victory (which was really a loss if you count the millions of popular votes Hillary Clinton surpassed him with).Last night, Trump held one of his rallies in Pennsylvania, where he became the unhinged Trump we saw during his presidential campaign.
As he ditched his teleprompter, what followed next was something only Trump would do.At one of the most insane parts of his speech, Trump told his supporters that they were crazed and wild beasts before he won the election.
He totally insulted their intelligence, and they loved every second of it.
Trump said: Before the election, you people are like wild beasts, wild animals They are screaming: Jail, jail, prison, going crazy.
Before the election, they are brutal.
They are so crazed.
You are like crazy people, and that s good, I like that.
And now you are laid back You ve won, you feel great about it and you don t have to go totally wild.
Trump claimed that now that he d won, his supporters were more laid back (although most of us would disagree).
You can watch Trump go off the rails below:Trump says Thank You rally crowd is laid back compared to crazed pre-election audience.
It s much different https://t.co/RjDKCQCiEo ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) December 16, 2016Trump has a painfully skewed view of his supporters (like many other things) if he thinks they have gotten less crazed since he won the election.
There was a dramatic increase in hate crimes and violence in the few days after Trump won, and those incidents continue to be reported over a month later.
Trump s supporters now feel more entitled to their white privilege than ever, and will go ballistic if anyone crosses them.
And of course, Trump only continues to feed the beasts.Trump is only 35 days away from the beginning of his term, and instead of using his rallies to talk about his policies, Trump is filling the space with nonsense like this.Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images