Donald Trump is set to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, also known as DACA, an Obama-era policy.
It s a real d*ck move that is so appalling even Republicans are calling him out on it.
Approximately 800,000 young people will be subject to immediate deportation, and that would have included Alonso Guillen, a 31-year-old disc jockey from Lufkin, Texas who gave his life while trying to rescue others in the state in the wake of Hurricane Harvey.On Wednesday, Guillen disappeared along with two of his friends after their boat hit the bridge over the creek and capsized, the Houston Chronicle reports.One of his friends clung to a tree and was eventually rescued but days later, Guillen and Tomas Carreon Jr. were still missing.
Carreon s body was found floating down the creek on Friday.On Sunday, Guillen s body was found as it floated past a sandy berm.
A relative quickly dove in and pulled his body to the shoulder of the creek.
Soon after, a boat took him to shore.The Houston Chronicle reports:Guillen s father, Jesus Guillen, said he d asked his son not to try and rescue people in the storm, but he insisted, saying he wanted to help people.
He cried and prayed on Sunday afternoon as they pulled his son s body from the water.
Thank you, God, he said, for the time I had with him.
Trump would have had Mr. Guillen deported and now Border agents are refusing to let his mother into the U.S. in order to bury her son.Guillen was a recipient of the DACA program and his father is here legally but his mother, Rita Ruiz de Guillen, 62, is still in the application process for legal status.Mrs.
Guillen said from her home in Rita Ruiz, Mexico, across the border from Eagle Pass, that she s asking God for strength.
I ve lost a great son, you have no idea, she said while weeping softly on the other end of the phone.
I m asking God to give me strength.
She explained that she had hoped that U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials would take pity and grant her a humanitarian visa so that she could go to Houston and bury her son, but she was turned back at the border.
When we are with God, there are no borders, she said.
Man made borders on this earth.
To a man like Donald Trump, Alonso Guillen is one bad hombre.
To anyone with a heart, he died a hero.Featured image via Christopher Furlong/Getty Images