There are many differences between GOP Presidential hopeful Donald Trump and sitting President Barack Obama, but chief among them is the way they speak about the women in their lives, and women in general.
This video draws out those difference in a stunning comparison.The video, put together by the brilliant team at Buzzfeed News, features Obama sharing a wish for his daughters to live as equals among men in their future.
Meanwhile, Trump talks only about the great body of his teenage daughter Ivanka, while Howard Stern tells him he thinks she s hot.While Obama speaks about how much inspiration he takes from his wife Michelle and his two daughters, Trump is seen telling a female Apprentice contestant: Must be a pretty picture you dropping to your knees.
When Obama speaks about his admiration for his mother, who raised him alone, and the struggles she faced in making ends meet and bringing up a son.
At the other end of the spectrum, Trump tells a radio interviewer he has no plans to be involved in raising his next child that s what his wife is for.The video features many more shockingly callous comments from Trump, who clearly has about as much respect for women and girls as he has for the truth.
(Seriously, a recent study looking at more than 40 hours of campaign footage, found the Republican candidate lies on average, every five minutes.
)https://www.facebook.com/BuzzFeedNews/videos/1114564681897882/ Misogyny is not a joke.
It is not some hobby horse that angry women ride around to piss men off.
According to WHO figures, 1 in 3 women will experience sexual or physical abuse in her lifetime.
It killed 18,000 American women in the last 12 years.
This means that more women have been killed at the hands of their husbands and boyfriends since 9/11 than Americans died during 9/11 and in all terror attacks and wars since.This is a national (and global) crisis.As President, Barack Obama has done more for equal rights than many a President before him but this is a project still in it s infancy.
It would not survive the Presidency of Donald Trump.
Should Mr Trump, or Mr Cruz for that matter, make it to the White House, it is likely that two generations of advances in women s rights will be unravelled.
On reproductive rights, on equal pay, on prosecuting r*pe and s*xual assault, on s*xual harassment, on basic human respect the Republican front runners are to the right of Ghengis Khan.These are views that should make the candidates unelectable in an advanced nation.
It remains uncertain whether it makes them unelectable in America in 2016.But one thing is certain.
If either makes it to the Oval Office, the US will be put into reverse gear on some of the most pivotal issues of our time while the rest of the world drives forward.Featured image via YouTube screengrab