Donald Trump just got humiliated with facts again by CNN.On Wednesday morning, Trump once again attacked CNN by calling them fake news and accused them of pushing conspiracy theories in response to their reporting on the Michael Flynn scandal.The fake news media is going crazy with their conspiracy theories and blind hatred.
@MSNBC & @CNN are unwatchable.
@foxandfriends is great!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017Flynn got caught lying about his discussion with Russian officials about the sanctions President Obama placed on Russia.Because Flynn was not a government official at the time, he violated the Logan Act.
He also lied to Mike Pence about the discussion, and Pence proceeded to unknowingly lie in defense of Flynn and his activities.Thanks to White House staffers who leaked the truth, Trump was forced to accept Flynn s resignation.And Trump didn t like that so he lashed out at the media for reporting the leaks.Well, CNN host Jake Tapper BURIED Trump Wednesday afternoon by teaching him the difference between conspiracy theories and real news.
The media, of course did not fire General Flynn, President Trump did, Tapper pointed out.
Now what the media did do was reveal to the nation that General Flynn had lied to the Trump team including Vice President Pence when he claimed he never discussed Obama s sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador.
President Trump knew this at least as early as January 26th.
But he did not act on this until media revealed the truth to you, and, as it turns out, Vice President Pence.
Of course these stories are not conspiracy theories, these are news stories sourced by government officials, Tapper continued.
Conspiracy theories are different, they re false, they re crackpot, they re nonsense.
Tapper then proceeded to give Trump examples of conspiracy theories, such as when Trump claimed that Ted Cruz s dad helped kill John F. Kennedy or when Trump pushed the lie that President Obama was born in Kenya.
THOSE are conspiracy theories, Tapper declared.
These are facts.
Ad if Trump weren t already humiliated enough, Tapper also slammed Trump s hypocrisy on leaks.
Throughout Trump s campaign he cheered on Wikileaks and the FBI for leaking information he could use against Hillary Clinton.
But now that the leaks are about him and his administration, he s pissed off about it.
No president likes leaks, but it s worth noting candidate Trump s path to power was tread on a road of leaks.
He didn t have a problem with leaks then.
It s not a moral position if you only hold it when it applies to you.
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump really needs to stop attacking the media.
It s embarrassing.Featured image via screenshot