An angry black, gay, racist, Democrat victim the poster child for today s progressive in America Gay Black reporter Vester Flanagan was an Angry Barack Obama Democrat.
** He was reprimanded for wearing a Barack Obama sticker at work.
** He had his racial suits tossed from court ** He was a high paid companion ** He attempted to subpoena personnel records on both of his victimsThen he shot them dead Killer Vester Flanagan was a big Obama supporter.The Huffington Post reported:Vester Lee Flanagan, the man suspected of killing two Virginia television reporters Wednesday morning, attempted to subpoena personnel records on both of those victims, as well as other staff members, as part of a lawsuit against the TV station.Flanagan s lawsuit, filed in the Roanoke City General District Court in March 2014, requested $25,000 from WDBJ, the station, which had terminated his employment the previous year.
The suit cited wrongful termination, unpaid overtime wages, racial discrimination and sexual harassment for identifying as gay.
The case was dismissed due to lack of evidence, although it s unclear whether a settlement was reached.According to an internal memo included in the court documents, after Flanagan was presented with a severance letter in February 2013, he said, You better call police because I m going to make a big stink.
A newsroom employee called 911, and police officers arrived to physically escort Flanagan from the building.Memos indicate that Ward videotaped Flanagan as he was escorted out.
Flanagan told Ward to lose your big gut, and flipped off the camera.WDBJ objected to Flanagan s request for employee documents, claiming the personnel records were proprietary information and irrelevant to his claims.The court filings also include Flanagan s application for employment at WDBJ and his resume, in which he reported graduating from San Francisco State University with a 3.7 grade point average and his affiliation with the National Association of Black Journalists.Flanagan was offered a position with WDBJ on March 6, 2012, as a multimedia journalist/general assignment reporter with an annual salary of $36,000.
However, he quickly racked up a misconduct record during his year of employment.In a performance review in August 2012, Flanagan was given a 1, the lowest rating, for being respectful to coworkers at all times, but a 4 for work diligence and attendance.
He was written up in November 2012 for wearing a Barack Obama sticker.By the end of that year, his supervisor was expressing dissatisfaction with the quality of Flanagan s work, as well as his attitude towards his co-workers.
Dan Dennison, the station s news director at the time, cited a story in which Flanagan reported on a local church s response to the mass shooting at Newtown, Connecticut.
Via: Gateway Pundit