Just five days before the next Republican presidential debate, scheduled to be hosted by Fox News, Donald Trump seized control of the GOP political process.
In a live phone call to Fox and Friends, Trump informed the network that he wouldn t be participating.
On hearing the news, Ohio Governor John Kasich also decided to drop out, leaving Fox with no choice but to cancel.Well that or let Ted Cruz screech into the camera for two hours while America engaged in uncontrollable vomiting.Trump s reasons were pretty clear.
He says that there have been enough debates, and he s right.
They could force the voters to watch yet another round of in-party bickering over who hates women, minorities, immigrants, Muslims and Donald Trump more.
After the blonde Fox News actress reminded Trump that the voters love the debates, he schooled her on the truth of the matter: It s the networks that love the debates.Republican debates get great ratings, which can be attributed to Donald Trump.
If it were just the whining of Ted Cruz and company, nobody would bother.
Republicans and Democrats alike tune into the debates this election cycle to see what stupid thing Donald Trump will say next and to watch the candidates go at each others throats.
Trump pointed out that the Democratic debates get terrible ratings, which is only true if you consider they re being pitted against nationally televised, primetime versions of the Jerry Springer show.Trump did give an actual reason he couldn t be talked out of dropping out of the debate, citing a very important speech to a very important group of people he couldn t name.
The hosts of Fox and Friends begged him to reconsider, which in and of itself is hilarious, but still Trump declined.
He declared that the debate was a surprise to begin with; that nobody had bothered to tell him it was even happening.
With only three candidates left and one of them being a single-digit non-threat, a debate without Trump would be pointless.It would appear that this isn t just a shot at Fox, either.
Trump said he thinks the Republicans have had enough debates.
It s a well-played card for the guy the debates are let s face it aimed at destroying.
The state party leaders have done everything in their power to see to it that the halls are packed with establishment candidate supporters, leaving Trump in a sea of boos when he uses the bully tactics that are necessary for him to keep control of the idiot vote.Watch Fox and Friends get caught off guard when Trump announces he won t be doing any more debates:https://www.facebook.com/foxandfriends/videos/1032229193531343/Featured image from screen capture