Donald Trump just ruined any remaining chance he had to get support from MSNBC hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski.On Saturday, Trump openly accused President Obama of wiretapping Trump Tower without providing a shred of evidence to support his claim.In response, Joe Scarborough ripped him a new one on Twitter.Ever since Trump made the outrageous accusation, federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies have refuted it, including former National Intelligence Director James Clapper and current FBI Director James Comey.On Monday, the Morning Joe hosts kicked off their show by thoroughly blasting Trump and aired their disappointment that he would make such a claim against a former president.Mika Brzezinski began by calling Trump s accusation unprecedented.
I had hope and an open mind and I have lost hope completely and my mind is closed, she continued on Trump s presidency.
There was a belief that he could turn the corner, Joe Scarborough said.
What Donald Trump did on Saturday morning has shaken this government and the confidence of its people to the core.
It is hard to overstate how reckless that tweet was.
The 45th president of the United States accusing the 44th president of tapping his phones, personally tapping his phones, calling him sick.
Mika Brzezinski called Trump s accusations uncouth as Scarborough continued to explain how seriously Trump f*cked up.
For people comparing this to the birther controversy, context is necessary.
It is one thing when a reality TV star accused a president of a sleazy conspiratorial theory.
But when a president of the United States accuses another president, the context changes and it becomes dangerous We are in crisis.
It s an administration that has lost all credibility at this point, Brzezinski added.Here s the video via VidMe:At the end of the program, Scarborough remarked that Trump reached a new low this weekend and Brzezinski called Trump s presidency fake and failed.
Here s that clip via YouTube:Donald Trump just dug a deeper hole for himself by accusing a former president of wiretapping him.
He is literally slandering President Obama because he has no proof to back up his accusations.
It s time for Congress to impeach Trump.
Trump is causing mass chaos and damaging our government institutions while blatantly ignoring the Constitution.
This farce can no longer be allowed to continue.
And if Republicans won t do something to save this country from Trump, it will be the duty of the American people to put an end to the Republican Party and put lawmakers in office who will.Featured image via screenshot