If there is a special place in hell for a woman who works against the best interests of women, this Trump supporter already has a reservation.Young Turks reporter Jordan Chariton went to Donald Trump s rally in North Carolina on Wednesday before it began to interview several Trump supporters.When Chariton asked one woman if she had a birthday message for Hillary Clinton, rather than say something nice the woman said, Trump that bitch!
We could care less about her birthday, the woman continued, going on to remark that she hopes Hillary won t be in the White House.The woman then proceeded to tell Chariton that she won t be happy about a Clinton being in the White House, even though it would mark the first time in American history that a woman has been elected President of the United States.
Absolutely not, she said.And instead of citing her policies or anything else, this Trump supporter said she opposes Clinton because of her gender.
I don t believe there should be a woman President, she said.And that means any woman.
But why?
I believe in Christianity and I see that she does not stand for the Christianity, she went on to say.
Does Christianity say you can not have a female President?
Chariton followed up.
It doesn t say, she replied.
I just don t believe there should be woman leaders.
I believe women should stand back from things like this, especially the White House.
In other words, this Trump supporter believes that a woman s place is being submissive to men just like conservative Christians believe.
The woman Chariton interviewed doesn t even think women should be speakers.
Translation: women should shut up and stay in the home and not have any say in political matters whatsoever.Later in the video, the same Trump supporter reversed herself by saying that Jesus might frown upon a woman being a leader and further stated her belief that Donald Trump feels the same way.She went to say that she thinks the 12 women who have accused Trump of sexually assaulting them were paid by the Clinton Foundation to do so.
It s an accusation with ZERO evidence to support it.
But there is lots of evidence suggesting that Donald Trump is a sexual predator.Here s the video via YouTube.To recap, Donald Trump thinks women are sex objects for men to conquer and do with as they please.
His supporters don t give a damn about the victims he has harmed over the years.
Trump supporters have also been calling for the 19th Amendment to be repealed, which would strip women of the right to vote.
And now we have video of a Trump supporter saying that no woman should ever be allowed to be a leader or speaker.And yet Republicans wonder why women continue to leave the GOP.Featured Image: Screenshot