While most of us probably wish former Congresswoman Michele Bachmann (R-MN) would just go away, she reared her head again on Wednesday to do what conservatives do best: blame and insult President Barack Obama.In a column for WorldNetDaily, Bachmann has written something so absolutely ridiculous and senseless that one has to wonder if she was intoxicated when she thought of it.
In a blog post, Bachmann absolutely loses it and goes on an enormous rant on all of Obama s supposed failures, noting that This week, a United States president was humiliated on the world s stage by an aging, insulting Communist dictator.
While the entire post is preposterous, the real kicker is when she reveals her belief that God sent terrorists to carry out the tragic Brussels attacks to humiliate Obama and punish him because he made a historical visit to Cuba instead of attending the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) conference.
Seriously, she even titled the post Obama Visits Cuba While Civilization Burns .
She wrote: Maybe our president s humiliation comes in a manner so devastating it makes one wonder whether the Creator of humankind isn t reminding this world of the inferiority of foolishness in the face of wisdom.The president once again mocked his nemesis, the Jewish people and the nation of Israel, by cleverly turning the international press corps toward his brilliant work in Cuba, instead of covering ongoing Islamic attacks against the Jewish state as outlined that very same day at the annual pro-Israel AIPAC meeting in Washington, D.C.History changed less than 24 hours later in the blink of an eye, and the rug was pulled out from under his well-laid plans.Obama s slavish press corps was forced to turn their uncritical gaze from adoring him to revealing the newest carnage in Brussels.Our eyes were spellbound.
You can read the entire belligerent post here.
To be perfectly honest, if Bachmann is trying to make Christianity look bad, she s doing an amazing job.
Claiming that God would send terrorists to kill 31 and wound approximately 250 people just to soil Obama s reputation is not really a great approach for the religious right.We re sure numerous conservatives will stand behind Bachmann, confidently believing that if only the President had been at the AIPAC conference instead of Cuba, God would have been happy and the Brussels attack wouldn t have happened!
Bachmann ended the post by accusing Obama for peddling the dangerous fantasy of multicultural diversity, globalization and one-world nonsense.
And by saying: The choice is ours.
Which leaders will we choose?
Not little big man.
Not today.
Featured image via Getty Images