Chris Christie just had yet another terrible day at the hands of his new boss, Donald Trump.
In what is becoming a trend, Trump once again used Christie as his personal punching bag, while the humiliated governor was forced to stand close by and grovel.At a campaign stop in Ohio, Trump took a dig at the state s governor John Kasich by noting that he was such a bad governor, that he may have even been worse than Christie.
Christie was standing off to Trump s side, forced to pretend to like it as he was mocked by the man he endorsed for president.
It was surreal.
Your governor, Kasich, if you look at him, and I m being totally impartial, he goes to New Hampshire, he s living in New Hampshire.
Living.
Where s Chris?
Is Chris around?
Even more than Chris Christie he was there.
[Trump points at Chris, standing just off camera] Right?!
Ouch.
The dig is particularly bad because Christie has often been accused of abandoning his state to promote himself.
But don t worry, Chris.
Trump felt awfully bad about telling a crowd that you are terrible.
I hated to do that, Trump said with a smile, but I had to make my point.
The scorching by his new best friend comes at a very awkward time for Christie.
The New Jersey governor has been getting hammered by critics in his state for abandoning his job to run a failed campaign for president and then immediately jump on the Trump bandwagon, and avoid his job again.
Already, many are calling for Christie to resign or face impeachment.On the very same day that he was being shamed by Trump, Christie set off a firestorm of outrage when he announced he would be in Ohio rather than attend the funeral of a police officer who had been killed in the line of duty.Local media outlets reported that hundreds of police officers, family members and friends attended Cullen s funeral in Washington Township, N.J.Christie, however, was not one of them.Instead, the former 2016 White House hopeful hosted a town hall forum with Trump at noon on Monday, the same time Cullen s funeral was scheduled for, at Rhyne University in Hickory, N.C.He then joined Trump for his Ohio event.This isn t the first time Christie has had to stand with a grin while Trump brought him to heel in front of thousands of people and dozens of news cameras.
Earlier this year, a hot mic captured Trump telling Christie to get off the stage they were sharing and get on the plane.
The incident quickly went viral, confirming many of the rumors swirling about Trump s campaign and his obsession with not letting anyone share his spotlight.Why does Christie suffer through this level of disrespect?
That s easy.
His career as governor is doomed, and he s shooting for attorney general in Trump s administration.
Who needs self-respect when you have a job lined up from your new boss who hates you?Featured image via YouTube