But parent activists are suggesting Trump is getting the wrong advice from his transition team.Writing at Townhall, Indiana activist and researcher Erin Tuttle and American Principles Project education fellow Jane Robbins assert Trump s transition team may be ignoring the concerns of the most populist movement American politics has seen since Reagan: the parents and teachers fighting Common Core.
Citing many of the reported potential candidates associations with ardent Common Core supporter Jeb Bush, Tuttle and Robbins note:West Michigan Politics reported that, like Donald Trump himself, the DeVos family has donated to the Clinton Foundation:Bloomberg also reported in July of 2015 that former President Bill Clinton often earned higher speech fees, especially abroad.
Amway paid him $700,000 for a February 2013 speech in Japan.
A report at the Detroit News in July states that DeVos, a former Michigan Republican Party chair, was an at-large delegate for pro-Common Core Ohio Gov.
John Kasich.
Kasich received a grade of F at The Pulse 2016 for his support of the controversial standards.
The former presidential candidate referred to parent activists in his state fighting against the Core as a runaway internet campaign.
Let s just say that I will be a more than interested bystander at the convention, DeVos said.Karen Braun who heads up Stop Common Core in Michigan wrote: DeVos involvement with GLEP which supports Common Core and with the Foundation for Excellence in Education should make any denunciation of Common Core from DeVos lips suspect, Vander Hart concludes.Braun also tells Breitbart News because DeVos refused to support Trump at the Republican National Convention, she is skeptical of whether she would commit to Trump s stated goal of removing the federal government from education.
Disloyalty should not be rewarded with a cabinet post, Braun asserts.
Her lobby group, GLEP, supports common core and P-20 competency based education or so called school choice.
I hope President-Elect Trump and the rest of the transition team think long and hard about this appointment.
Many of you are asking about Common Core.
To clarify, I am not a supporter period.
Read my full stance, here: https://t.co/qB2nAXvX0B Betsy DeVos (@BetsyDeVos) November 23, 2016Frank Cannon, president of American Principles Project, also released the following statement:For entire story: Breitbart News