Senator Bernie Sanders had the crowd roaring with laughter during a campaign rally in Nevada on Sunday as he mocked a certain GOPer mercilessly.The victim of Sanders flawless sense of humor was none other than Republican front runner Donald Trump, who has been known to boast about how great he is at every endeavor he s ever tried his hand at.
Not a day goes by that Trump isn t shoving his ego down the throats of Americans, with ridiculous claims that he will be the greatest jobs president or the best thing that ever happened to women.
Sanders used Trump s inflated sense of self against him, turning the business mogul into some comic relief for his supporters.As soon as Sanders mentioned Trump s name, the audience was booing the GOP candidate despite Sanders attempts to calm them down.
But he knows just how to lift the mood and the entire audience was soon laughing as Sanders said, We know that Donald Trump is the greatest everything in the world.
There is nothing that this man is not the greatest at.
And one of his major scientific contributions in recent years has been to proclaim that climate change is a hoax.
Now, for Republican candidates, this is not an unusual idea, but [Trump] added something to it, being the brilliant scientist that he is: That this hoax was created by the Chinese!
This made Sanders supporters giggle, as he noted how strange it was that Trump didn t blame climate change on immigrants or Muslims two minorities that Trump loves to blame for basically anything.
You can watch Sanders hilarious takedown of the GOPer below:Obviously, Trump is nothing close to a scientist, but that doesn t stop him from blabbering on about his extensive knowledge of the subject.
Even though Trump later tried to distance himself from the tweets where he d said China was responsible for climate change, there are plenty other examples that show Trump doesn t know a damn thing about the subject after all, he d once said that climate change was a hoax because of extreme winter weather!Trump is a complete idiot, and perhaps one of the things he s really the greatest at is showing just how ridiculous he and his fellow conservatives are.
Featured image from video screen capture