(Reuters) - President Barack Obama is set on Tuesday to unveil his budget proposal for fiscal year 2017, his final year in office.
But since the Republican-controlled Congress controls the purse strings, much of Obama’s plan likely will be shelved.
The following are some of the proposals that will be included: The Pentagon will ask for more than $7 billion for the fight against Islamic State, up about 35 percent from the previous year’s budget request to Congress, and wants a fourfold increase for military training and exercises in Europe to support NATO allies.
In a long-shot bid to raise $20 billion to expand transit systems and research self-driving cars, Obama will propose a $10-a-barrel tax on crude oil.
The budget will propose boosting spending on cybersecurity by 35 percent to $19 billion and creating a $3.1 billion fund to modernize the government’s creaky information technology systems.
Obama will seek a 20 percent boost for renewable energy research funding to a total of $7.7 billion.
Obama will propose a $2.5 billion tax credit over five years for businesses that invest in community college programs and 05:00:then hire their graduates.
The White House will ask for $1.8 billion in emergency funding to prepare for the Zika virus, work on tests and vaccines, and assist Puerto Rico and countries grappling with the outbreak.
Obama will seek an 11 percent hike in funding for the Securities and Exchange Commission to $1.8 billion and 32 percent increase for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to $330 million.
The budget will propose a 1.6 percent pay increase for military and civilian federal personnel.
Obama will ask for $1.1 billion in new funding to expand treatment for people addicted to heroin and prescription painkillers, a growing epidemic.
Obama pledged more than $450 million in aid to Colombia to help with security and integrating rebel combatants into society under a pending peace deal to end Latin America’s longest war.
Obama will propose $12 billion over 10 years to supplement food stamps for poor families when school meal programs are closed in the summer, $2 billion in emergency aid for families in crisis, a combined $328 million in education and housing grants to poor neighborhoods, and a $15 million pilot program to help poor families move to better neighborhoods.
The budget will include three years of federal funding to 19 state governments that passed up an earlier offer to expand Medicaid coverage for more than 4 million low-income people.
Obama will ask for tweaks to a tax on certain health insurance plans that is unpopular with labor unions.
The White House will ask for $5.5 billion in incentives for businesses that hire young people and $200 million for apprenticeship programs.
Obama will propose $4 billion for states and $100 million for school districts to expand computer science in schools.
The budget will include $1 billion over five years to help coal-mining regions with economic development.
The White House will ask for $755 million for Vice President Joe Biden’s “moonshot” effort to find new cancer treatments.
The budget will include $700 million in agricultural research grants, double the spending level in 2016.
Obama has proposed $500 million to boost access to mental healthcare as part of his push to address gun violence.
Obama will propose $95 million for a new office responsible for background checks for federal employees.
As part of reforms to the criminal justice system, Obama will ask for $24 million for better housing for inmates with serious mental illnesses.
Obama will propose tax credits for small businesses offering 401(k) plans or expanding access to retirement savings programs.
Obama will seek to expand unemployment insurance to more types of workers, provide wage insurance for workers moving to lower-paid positions, and provide incentives to states for retraining or relocating workers.
Obama will ask for funding to hire 200 new ATF staff to enforce gun laws.