House Speaker Paul Ryan finally admitted the reason he is refusing to hold town hall meetings: He s too afraid of protesters.
Speaking at a Boy Scouts event in Wisconsin, Ryan told the crowd that he just doesn t have the guts to face his own constituents when he knows they are p*ssed that he s trying to steal their health care.
Aside from the obvious security concerns, what we have found is there are people who are trying to come in from out of the district to disrupt town hall meetings and not have a civil discussion, so what I have been doing is looking for new and creative ways to interact with my constituents in a civil way, Ryan said.
That s why I have done a number of telephone town hall meetings, which I find very effective as people don t have to travel.
I do office hours.
I just did them this morning in Janesville.
In addition, I am doing a lot of business ones, the Speaker said.Ryan said that he has found other ways to meet with his constituents, like the town-hall style meeting he held on Thursday that was closed to the public with only 25 employees of the business he was touring in attendance.
I find when you guys are there, people kind of clam up.
They get a little nervous, but when you do business town halls without media it is very interactive, so I am finding a lot of different ways to have a good civil dialogue with constituents, he continued.Ryan then said that if people want to talk to him, that s what his office hours are for, which he explained help keep him safe from all those big, mean protesters.
Additionally, if you want to come do office hours, they schedule office hours because I don t want to have a situation where we just have a screaming fest, a shouting fest where people are being bussed in from out of the district to get on TV because they are yelling at somebody.
That does nobody any good, and what I want to do is have a civil, good conversation with constituents, and that s why I do all these different things, whether it s planned tours, telephone town halls, office hours and the rest, he said.So, that s Ryan s master plan to deal with the ever increasing public anger over his plan to take health care from millions.
He s just going to hide like the spineless coward that he is.
Sounds legit.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images