While the Trump administration is up to its collective neck in scandals, Donald Trump just exempted his entire senior staff from provisions of his own ethics rules, thus giving any conflicts of interest a pass.
The ethics waivers total more than five times the number granted in the first four months of the Obama administration.
This move follows an intense dispute between the White House and the Office of Government Ethics, which had been pushing the Trump administration to stop granting such waivers in secret, the New York Times reports.Trump s executive order on ethics has been waived at least 11 times since the administration came into power.
Just before taking office, Trump signed an executive order seemingly in line with his Drain the Swamp rhetoric, to restrict the role of lobbyists in his administration.
While that sounded good at the time, he s failing to keep that promise.
In fact, he s filling swamp up to an unprecedented level of madness and corruption.The ethics waivers will now permit White House staffers to work on matters that could affect their former employers or clients or involve issues from which the aides would be normally be excluded because of past lobbying work, Politico reports.White House counselor Kellyanne Conway and Steve Bannon are included among those given an ethics pass.This is not normal:Chief White House strategist Steve Bannon also received a waiver to the rules as part of a blanket exemption for all White House appointees allowing them to communicate with the press.
His reported discussions with former colleagues at the pro-Trump site Breitbart News, which Bannon chaired until last year, had raised red flags among ethics watchdogs.The swamp is taking over:The White House waived the rule for Trump energy policy adviser Michael Catanzaro, a former lobbyist for the oil and gas industry.
He was given approval to work on energy and environmental policy issues including the Clean Power Plan, the Waters of the United States rule and other environmental regulations.Tax policy adviser Shahira Knight, a former Fidelity executive, was approved to deal with tax, retirement and financial services issues even though she d previously lobbied on those topics.
The National Economic Council has been tasked with addressing issues relating to tax, retirement and financial services.
The Administration has an interest in you working on matters in those areas due to your expertise and prior experience, the waiver reads.White House economic aide Andrew Olmem was cleared to work on a variety of finance-related issues despite his lobbying for several big insurance companies and banks.What is Trump going to do next, sign an executive to pardon for himself and his administration from any past or future crimes?
Or sign an executive order to disallow his own impeachment?
We re not sure why some Trump supporters aren t catching on to the level of corruption in this administration.
Seriously, Trump could eat a live puppy then wipe his mouth with its tail and his supporters would cheer him on.Photo by Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images.