President-elect Donald Trump s massive swamp now has a Russian accent.
It s so bad that even a Fox News host called him out for siding with a hostile foreign government over U.S. intelligence agencies.
And now, a former CIA director working on Trump s transition team has had it.
He is done.The Washington Post reports:Former CIA director R. James Woolsey Jr., a veteran of four presidential administrations and one of the nation s leading intelligence experts, resigned Thursday from President-elect Donald Trump s transition team because of growing tensions over Trump s vision for intelligence agencies.Woolsey s resignation as a Trump senior adviser comes amid Trump s public comments undermining the intelligence community.
Trump has publicly aligned himself with Russia over the U.S., even in his Twitter timeline.
Effective immediately, Ambassador Woolsey is no longer a Senior Advisor to President-Elect Trump or the Transition.
He wishes the President-Elect and his Administration great success in their time in office, said Jonathan Franks, a spokesman for Woolsey.According to those close to the former CIA director, Trump excluded him from discussions on intelligence matters in recent weeks, and that surprises no one considering that the president-elect routinely misses security briefings.According to those sources, Woolsey became increasingly uncomfortable to lend his name and credibility to the transition team without being consulted.The sources, who spoke under the condition of anonymity, said that Woolsey was taken aback by this week s reports that Trump is considering revamping the country s intelligence framework.
Indeed, the president-elect is crafting plans to restructure at least two of the nation s top intelligence agencies.
Jim is very uncomfortable being considered an adviser in an area where one might consider him an expert when he is not involved in the discussions, according to one source.
To be called senior adviser and your opinion is not sought is something he cannot handle.
The person close to Woolsey described him as having chafed at Trump s loose style on Twitter.
They described Woolsey as a very principled diplomat who takes care to communicate the right message with just the right words.
This is a guy [for whom] commas, periods, etc., all have special meaning, this person said.Trump s tweets are unnerving, and Woolsey knows it.
It s horrifying to read the president-elect s tweets each day, proving once again that Americans elected an unfit candidate to lead the free world.But, Trump knows everything already.
Who needs intelligence agencies?
Many people are saying that.
Believe me.
Or, as Comrade Trump might put it: .Photo by Spencer Platt via Getty Images