The despicable anti-free speech, communist clown, Michael Moore is taking page out of Obama s community organizer book.
He s asking for drones to help him report Trump on Facebook in an effort to shut down what Moore considers an opposing view.
Of course, he wants the ability to make 2nd rate anti-American films, but God forbid, anyone running for office openly love and embrace American values Leftwing filmmaker Michael Moore is asking his followers to report Donald Trump for using hate speech on Facebook, in hopes of getting the GOP frontrunner banned from the social media site.
Facebook prohibits all its users from using hate speech on its site ( You will not post content that is hate speech ), wrote Moore in a detailed post on Wednesday.
I m joining others today in filing a complaint with Facebook that Trump s Facebook page is using hate speech to promote racism and bigotry.
Moore added: Please file your complaint, too.
Here s how: Go to Trump s page facebook.com/DonaldTrump.
Click Report .
Then click It shouldn t be on FB .
Then click Hate Speech .
Then click either race or ethnicity or religious group .
That s it.
Let s get a few million doing this by the end of the day!
The New York Daily News reported this week that despite an online campaign to censor Trump, his posts are protected under Facebook s community standards:Facebook s policy does highlight that any hate speech content attacking people on their race, ethnicity, religious affiliation or national origin will be removed.
However, Trump s posts could potentially be protected by another rule under Facebook s community standards: Facebook can be used to challenge ideas, institutions, and practices.
Such discussion can promote debate and greater understanding.Friday, roughly a dozen protesters stormed a $1,000-a-plate New York City luncheon where Trump was delivering a speech, the Associated Press reported.Moore tweeted his team was outside the hotel:My team is down at the Trump Protest in NYC today.
The Donald is having a fundraiser at the Plaza Hotel.
Standby for updates.
#DumpTrump Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 11, 2015LIVE on #Periscope: LIVE From the TRUMP PROTEST in NYC today outside Plaza Hotel.
Donald arriving soon (via @jas https://t.co/IqPlwUAbAa Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 11, 2015New York Daily News picks up my campaign to have Facebook enforce its policy on hate speech against Donald Trump: https://t.co/hiRQr6rUIr.
Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 10, 2015TIME magazine has just named German Chancellor Angela Merkel as Person of the Year.
Somebody get Trump some smelling salts.
Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 9, 2015Just sang Christmas Carols outside the National Republican Center in D.C. All Donald Trump themed songs of course.
pic.twitter.com/FjFJDCgH1W Michael Moore (@MMFlint) December 9, 2015Via: Breitbart News