Some people believe that Trump is journaling his thoughts by posting on Twitter.
He s being transparent, they say.What these people fail to realize is, maybe sharing his thoughts to the entire world isn t the best idea.Or, maybe it is a good idea.
We get to really see what kind of man Trump is while he shoots himself in the foot.According to Fortune, Donald Trump s tweets about his travel ban helped convince an appeals court to block the controversial plan once again.
It s the second time his own comments have helped the courts knock down the executive order.The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals came to a decision on Monday, ruling that Trump s attempt to block immigration from six predominantly Muslim countries exceeded the scope of the authority delegated to him by Congress.
In their ruling, the judges cited a tweet from the President that was posted after the recent terrorist attack in London.
In this tweet, Trump stated that the U.S. needed a travel ban for certain dangerous countries.
President Trump s tweets continue to be cited in court decisions.
This from the 9th circuit just now: pic.twitter.com/4qN3thefAq Matt Viser (@mviser) June 12, 2017Gee.
I wonder which countries he means.Trump didn t stop at one tweet about the ban, either.
Trump also tweeted that he supported his original order, not the watered down, politically correct version that his own advisers had convinced him to sign.The Justice Dept.
should have stayed with the original Travel Ban, not the watered down, politically correct version they submitted to S.C. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 5, 2017No matter what way they try to spin it, we all know that Trump means a disgusting Muslim ban.
He even outright admitted it by saying he does not support the politically correct version .
And even that politically correct version was a bunch of crap, too.Luckily, the courts recognize this.
The Order seeks to ban people from specific countries, but it does not provide any link between an individual s nationality and their propensity to commit terrorism or their inherent dangerousness, the judges said.
In short, the Order does not provide a rationale explaining why permitting entry of nationals from the six designated countries would be detrimental.
Source: FortuneKicking yourself now for stating that Trump s tweets are official White House statements, aren t you, Spicer?Like I said there s obvious good from Trump s Twittering.
Trump helped stopped his travel ban executive order once again.Featured Image by Alex Wong/Getty Images