This is so disturbing but such a wake up call for people who don t realize what s going on all over Europe and what s coming our way.
America is as naive as Europe We also have our share of bleeding heart liberals who are happy to bring in anyone and everyone.Watch what happens below and tell us you would want these people living with you: As soon as Nicola Porro connected with his correspondent around 11:30pm at the Station Terminal of Rome to document the situation of the campers who congregate there at night, Francesca Parisella had just enough time to begin the connection before announcing, They have assaulted us .
With the camera weaving, it was understood that the journalist and her cameraman were fleeing and the voice of the reporter changed in tone into an actual cry of fear.
A few minutes later, Porro, from the studio, explained that, Francesca is upset but well.
They have destroyed the camera and beaten the cameraman.
A situation such as this evening s should not be a report from a war zone.
Thanks to a taxi driver, a much worse outcome was avoided.
The version was confirmed by Parisella herself, by telephone shortly thereafter.
We were at a distance to report on the type of welcome we can give; they were disturbed and they assaulted us.
They chased me and grabbed me by the jacket, explains the journalist.ITALY HAS BEEN INVADED NO KIDDING!
PLEASE WATCH THE VIDEO BELOW!Is this going to be America where invaders refuse to leave?
We already have illegals who keep coming back after being deported.
These people are ruining Europe but will we be next?These people are heading to Northern Europe How many will end up in the US?ISLAMIZATION OF ITALY: THOUSANDS OF MUSLIMS Protest For Mosque Outside Iconic ColosseumSmall mosques were shut down in Italy to keep youth from becoming radicalized A huge protest ensued Thousands of Muslims gathered outside Rome s Colosseum to protest the closure of mosques and other places of worship in the Italian capital.
The group gathered outside the iconic ancient Roman building to pray as they promoted their right of freedom to worship during the peaceful march yesterday.
An imam led the group in chants of Allah Akbar which means God is great, as they kneeled to the ground facing the Colosseum.
Via: Daily Mail