Donald Trump s many business ventures mean that he s got business relationships with many banks, including Wall Street banks.
He could easily waltz into the White House owing at least $100 million to Deutsche Bank, which creates a massive conflict of interest that many have pointed out.
Deutsche Bank has been heavily penalized by our government for repeated violations, and having business ties to Trump means they could whip him into letting them off the hook just to preserve his businesses, creating a massive conflict of interest.Now, anti-Wall Street crusader Elizabeth Warren has joined the chorus of voices decrying this, slamming Trump and his relationship with Deutsche Bank in a statement to Mother Jones: The job of the President is to enforce the law fairly.
If a serial lawbreaker like Deutsche Bank is caught manipulating markets again, how would Trump hold it accountable knowing that the bank had the power to pull the plug on his own businesses?
That s a question that should worry every American.
These financial entanglements along with many of his other ongoing business concerns and arrangements present huge conflicts of interest.
Deutsche Bank settled with U.S. regulators for things like fixing metals prices and rigging interest rates that s what Warren means when she calls them a serial lawbreaker, but they re fighting us on other things and have been for years.
They re among the banks that screwed the little guy that Trump claims to stand for in order to enrich themselves.Having Trump in the White House could easily allow them to put our regulators over a barrel, and he ll have to break his promises to the little guy.Two weeks ago, Warren attacked Trump for saying that he d made money off of the 2008 economic crash, which is something for which everyone should attack him because that s just sick for a presidential candidate to say.
She said back then that Trump only cares about Trump, and those statements disqualify him from being president of the U.S.She also went after him for saying that Dodd-Frank put too many regulations on Wall Street bankers.
She wanted to know whether he could even name three things that Dodd-Frank does, and said, Seriously, someone ask him.
Chances are, he doesn t have a clue.What his businesses owe Deutsche Bank should disqualify him from the presidency because the President of the United States can t be in a position where foreign entities, whether they re governments or private organizations, can put him or her in a bind over regulation.
Elizabeth Warren knows what s what here, and that s why her attacks are escalating.
Trump can t be trusted in the White House.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images