After Bernie Sanders win in New Hampshire on Tuesday night, so many people contributed to his campaign that ActBlue, the fundraising service used by Democratic candidates, is having trouble processing the donations.
That s because during his victory speech, Sanders said: I m not going to New York City to host a fundraiser on Wall Street.
Instead, I m going to hold a fundraiser right here, right now, across America.
My request is please go to BernieSanders.com and contribute.
So there it is, that s our fundraiser.
Pretty quick, Sanders concluded.
That fundraiser brought in more than $5.1 million dollars in one night for Sanders.
It was a Yuuuge night for the Democratic candidate.Here is the victory speech that broke the internet:Sanders supporters took to Twitter to complain that their contributions were not going through.
Act Blue is doing the best they can to deal with the new flood of donations being sent to Sanders.Huge night!
Contributions are processing, receipts are a little delayed.
Keep the donations coming!!
ActBlue (@actblue) February 10, 2016Our customer service team is always available for support.
Just email [email protected] and someone will get back to you.
ActBlue (@actblue) February 10, 2016 ActBlue laid out what happened to cause the issues, in a blog post: Last night s spontaneous fundraiser (the one that raised $5.2 million in less than a day) broke our external processor s response systems.
That s some amazing grassroots power.
Like we said, we over-prepare, so we were ready for that.
But the vendor started giving us a previously undocumented error message, which temporarily caused some donors to not move from the please wait page to the confirmation page even though their contributions were already fully processed As a certain hilarious SNL skit pointed out, we all know that Bernie Sanders average campaign donation is $27 dollars.
The people-powered campaign has already smashed President Obama s previous record for the highest number of contributions.
The fact that people are making smaller donations to Sanders campaign gives the candidate a huge advantage in terms of grassroots fundraising.
Since very few people have donated the maximum amount they can, supporters can continue to donate to Sanders campaign throughout the primary season.That might have something to do with why Sanders raised more money than Hillary Clinton s campaign in January.
In January, Sanders received $20 million dollars in donations, while Clinton raised $15 million dollars.Rest assured, anxious Berners.
The campaign s site is up and running and this shouldn t be a problem anymore.
Be happy, this is probably the best problem any candidate could ever have during an election.Featured image from video screenshot via YouTube