It looks like Bill O Reilly is getting the last laugh When the Fox News Channel fired cable news giant Bill O Reilly in April, reports surfaced revealing Fox News owner, the Murdoch family, wanting to move the network in a different direction.
Out with the old guard, in with the new.
More hosts similar to Megyn Kelly, who is now at NBC News, fewer like the ones who built the network from the ground up, including O Reilly.About one month later, Fox News has a completely different news lineup, and the results thus far have been nothing short of disastrous.On Thursday, TV Newser reported Fox News, which once dominated its competitors in virtually every timeslot, is now losing across the board in the key 25-54 demographic.The results are most notable in primetime, which used to carry Fox News most reliable audience.
Now, Fox News is running a distant third to hosts who previously drew audiences half the size of O Reilly s.On Thursday, at the 7 p.m. hour, Fox News The Story, hosted by Martha MacCallum, lost by more than 100,000 viewers in the 25-54 demographic to CNN s OutFront with Erin Burnett.
Chris Matthews Hardball beat MacCallum by nearly 60,000 viewers.At 8 p.m., Fox News Tucker Carlson Tonight lost to both CNN s Anderson Cooper and MSNBC s All In with Chris Hayes.At 9 p.m., Fox News Channel s The Five was absolutely demolished by Cooper and MSNBC s The Rachel Maddow Show, which won the key demographic by more than 200,000 viewers.Of all the Fox News hosts in primetime, Sean Hannity performed the best, although he still finished third to CNN Tonight with Don Lemon and MSNBC s The Last Word with Lawrence O Donnell.Through May 18, Fox News Channel s total audience in May remained larger than its cable-news competitors, including CNN and MSNBC, according to Nielsen Media Research.O Reilly, who joins Glenn Beck on The Glenn Beck Program every Friday, told Beck on Friday there s no doubt that Fox News has a problem.
They have a problem, O Reilly said.
Fox News has a problem.
There s no doubt about it.
Whenever you lose a key person in any industry, competitive industry, sports, media, you better have a plan.
And it doesn t look like FNC has a plan.
The Blaze