Trump has a serious lack of impulse control, particularly on social media.
We ve known this forever, and it s to the point where some have begun calling for the media to return to real journalism and stop focusing on his damn tweets.
Part of the reason so many feel we can t ignore them is because they represent a lack of control, and because they re the inner thoughts of a madman who thinks he s still a private citizen and can say what he wants.Newt Gingrich, one of Trump s biggest and most shameless fanboys, has a different idea and it s pretty wild.
To Gingrich, Trump is intentionally using social media to manipulate what information gets out.
He believes this is Trump s amazing creative skill at work: [The Apprentice] was a remarkably popular show [Trump] understands the value of tension.
He understands the value of showmanship.
And candidly, the news media is going to chase the rabbit.
So it s better off for him to give them a rabbit than for them to go find their own rabbit.
He s had them fixated on Mitt Romney now for five or six days.
I think from his perspective, that s terrific.
It gives everyone something to talk about.He does not think of this as chaos.
He thinks of this as creativity.
Gingrich went on to say how Trump has used social media to get regular Americans to attack the media for going after real issues.
In other words, he believes Trump has come up with this amazing solution to the media exposing truths he doesn t want exposed.
President-elect Trump s ability to communicate directly to the American people when he wants to through Facebook, through Twitter, through a variety of mechanisms that aren t traditional gives him an ability to communicate and build on majority unlike any president we have seen up until now and I suspect he will continue to use it.He is not going to fall into allowing the elite media to define who he is and allowing them to censor what the American people learned.
Some think Trump is an egotistical nincompoop with onion-paper thin skin and no impulse control at all, and they re probably not wrong.
Entire columns, like this one, have been devoted to his numerous, bizarre and vague statements on foreign policy, on climate change, on pretty much everything.
They make Trump into a joke.Gingrich doesn t want people making Trump into a joke, so of course he s going to say that his crazy Twitter tirades are carefully calculated distractions that he crafted using his reality show expertise.
There s probably no way to know for sure what Trump is up to, but we can say this: Some of his surrogates will spin any wild yarn at all to make him look like the smartest president we ve never had.And largest majority?
I do not think that means what you think it means.Featured image by John Sommers II via Getty Images