Donald Trump s team keeps trying to make the public think that he is somehow not a total toddler that they want to give the nuclear codes to.
However, he is making their job very hard.
That continued Friday morning, as he began airing his grievances regarding Alicia Machado, the former Miss Universe who he publicly shamed for gaining weight after winning (and still has done all week as she tried to warn Americans just what Donald Trump is like).Never one to be able to let anything go, Trump got up early Friday morning before most people were even awake, and went on an unhinged rant on Twitter.
You d think by now that his team would know to take his phone each night at bedtime so he can t do this, but I digress.
Without further ado, here is the madness:Anytime you see a story about me or my campaign saying "sources said," DO NOT believe it.
There are no sources, they are just made up lies!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Wow, Crooked Hillary was duped and used by my worst Miss U. Hillary floated her as an "angel" without checking her past, which is terrible!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Using Alicia M in the debate as a paragon of virtue just shows that Crooked Hillary suffers from BAD JUDGEMENT!
Hillary was set up by a con.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U.S. citizen so she could use her in the debate?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 30, 2016So, we have a presidential candidate who has so little self control that he has spent a week now shrieking over a beauty queen s weight.
Further, he is literally tweeting about her sex tape (which doesn t exist) in the middle of the night.
He literally can t help himself.If you think this will help you with women, Donny, you got another thought coming.
Women HATE this kind of stuff.
Further, the more you keep this up, the more people who realize what an absolutely disgusting, sexist pig you are.Go ahead, pick up the shovel and keep digging.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images