Let s just say, hypothetically, that Donald Trump is right about something.
Let s say that Jeb Bush is a low energy dweeb who nobody seems to want to get behind.
Let s assume that Jeb Bush will, in fact, do or say anything to bring his campaign into double digits, with the exception of refraining from that goofy head tilt and nod thing he s got going on.If that were true, Jeb Bush would probably go the route of route of Ted Cruz, whose ripped off machine gun bacon stunt gave him a boost with hill folk and other rednecks who just love guns and bacon.
If Jeb Bush were to do it, it wouldn t be wearing full camo so the bacon can t see the dangerous predator ready to kill it.
At least the noble already-dead beast will not go to waste.Jeb Bush would post a picture of his beloved gun with the caption America, because Jeb Bush is a desperate fool at this point who would claim to be getting regular visits from Jesus Christ in a Volkswagen bus if it were trendy:America.
pic.twitter.com/TeduJkwQF3 Jeb Bush (@JebBush) February 16, 2016How sad is that?
That Jeb Bush could choose to Tweet that garbage goes miles in showing what he would look like in the White House.
Not to mention he d look with his terrible posture firing that thing.Who better to school him on the sad irony of his nifty little gun than Bette Midler:Jeb Bush tweeted a pic of his handgun with the caption "America."
With over 300 mass shootings last year, maybe that IS our national symbol.
Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) February 17, 2016I mean seriously.
Who couldn t see that coming?
The Divine Miss M went ahead and pointed out the obvious, extremely disturbing elephant in the room that stupid Jeb tweets is sitting in guns are undeniably and embarrassingly American.
Argue about the murder rate in Honduras all you want, conservatives.
Show a picture of that gun to people around the world and ask them the first country that comes to mind.Bette Midler is incredibly insightful.
Her laser-guided efforts to humiliate anything GOP are becoming legendary.
It s always a pleasure to have her weigh in to make Jeb Bush look stupid.Featured images from Twitter screen captures