If you ve ever watched Donald Trump and his wife Melania interact with each other, it s obvious that there s something strange about their relationship.
As the undeserving POTUS and First Lady are now being recorded in the public eye more than ever before, their marriage has come under scrutiny and people are legitimately worried for Melania s wellbeing and safety.One recent moment of concern was captured on Saturday, when Melania gave the invocation before Trump s re-election rally in Florida.
Melania began to recite the Lord s Prayer, but her body language completely changed as Trump approached her and touched her.
Cosmopolitan.com scribe Madison Feller described the event like this: (Y)ou can see that before Melania began the Lord s Prayer, President Trump came over and touched her on the arm.
As he does so, Melania seems to flinch and look away before saying thank you and moving on around the 11 second mark in the video below.
.
@FLOTUS opens her remarks with the Lord s Prayer.
pic.twitter.com/z0Vk6znjL8 Fox News (@FoxNews) February 18, 2017In the footage above, it s noticeable that as soon as Trump s hand touches Melania s arm, her face jerks to the left and she looks as if she might be flinching.
Here s that moment again:This footage, combined with another infamous video of Melania at Trump s inauguration, certainly raises questions about how Trump is treating her.
At the inauguration, Melania was shown smiling as Trump turns around to face her.
He says something to her, and her smile quickly turns into a scowl:This is not the face of a happy woman.
I really feel bad for this woman..i can only imagine what personal hell https://t.co/kNkmoA5iqW ?Nasty Kim Zang ?
(@Purrrnella59) February 20, 2017Many people noticed that Melania flinched at Saturday s rally, and have expressed concern for the FLOTUS:The flinch at 14 seconds is mesmerizing.
https://t.co/RNeaF0wB4T James Brennan (@Denver_Brennan) February 21, 2017 Given Trump s long history of being a misogynist, it wouldn t be a long shot to say Melania might be in an abusive marriage with him.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images