The Republican Party has been nervous as hell ever since the CIA released reports that Russia had meddled in the U.S. election in order to sway it toward Donald Trump.
This tension within the GOP couldn t have been more obvious than when Republican National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer had a fullblown meltdown over his distrust of the CIA.While being interviewed by MSNBC on Monday, host Kate Snow brought up the recent reports about Russia s interference, and Spicer was quick to deny the truth.
Spicer said that any evidence that the Kremlin was trying to help Trump win is based on the fact that the RNC was hacked, and it was not hacked.
He said: That does call into question the intelligence and the conclusions they came to.
Snow then asked Spicer to clarify whether or not he is saying he doesn t believe the CIA and that s when Spicer devolved into a toddler (obviously taking hints from Trump) and began throwing a temper tantrum.
Spice yelled: Stop doing that!
That s not what I said, no!
You keep Snow jumped in and said, I m just asking a question.
Are you saying you don t trust the CIA?
Because just a moment ago you said three letter agencies with unnamed sources, that s why I m asking.
Do you not trust Spicer continued on with his angry rant, making it clear that he doubted the validity of the CIA s reports.
He shouted: No, no.
Tell me someone in the CIA, give me a name, publish a report and we ll deal with it.
Right now, you guys start saying that you read these reports, you have no name behind it.
It should be noted that there are even members within the Republican party that wholeheartedly trust the CIA and are backing an investigation into this matter.
Snow responded that the CIA has a high degree of confidence that the Kremlin was behind Trump s win.
Snow asked Spicer, I m asking, do you not believe that?
Spicer continued to snap, growing more angry with each question.
He fired back: Can I answer the question?
They ve now walked that back in the course of the last 48 hours.
So my point to you is this: the facts that we were initially presented with are clearly not accurate and so it does call into question [the legitimacy of those reports].
And I find it interesting that you guys aren t asking them to provide further proof of this.
Spicer ended his rant by insulting news networks like the one he was on, stating that news organizations were not doing a good job in getting more evidence of Russian interference.You can watch Spicer go insane below:Featured image via screenshot