Most of us are fully aware that Republican nominee Donald Trump is not only a racist, a misogynist and a bigot, but a complete psychopath and compulsive liar.
But what happens when Trump is actually put through a clinical sanity test?
Political commentator Keith Olbermann decided to find out.In a courageous attempt to understand the way Trump s disturbed mind works, Olbermann examined Trump using clinical psychology practices, which lead to his conclusion that Trump would not pass any of the sanity tests commonly used to identify criminal and antisocial tendencies.Olbermann released his findings on Thursday in Vanity Fair, and the results were not good for the future of America.
The particular test Olbermann chose to evaluate Trump was The Hare Psychopathy Checklist , developed by Canadian criminal psychologist Robert D. Hare, which serves as a kind of triage device to separate the injured from the tripping from the psychopathic.
This particular test goes through 20 different personality traits, awarding points for each.
Such traits include a grandiose sense of self-worth, pathological lying, lack of empathy, parasitic lifestyle, promiscuous sexual behavior, and a failure to accept responsibility for one s own actions.
Just by that small sample of traits alone, you can probably already guess how Trump might have scored.The maximum amount of points you can get is 40, and clinical psychopathy is considered any score 30 or above.
Trump scored a whopping 32 making him a certainty for a diagnosis of clinical psychopathy.
Olbermann remarked on Trump s mental health: The implications are clear.
Our Trumperor s New Clothes media rightly sees the latest Trump event whatever it is this time as one of the most unbelievable developments in American political history.
But the simple mechanics of following, reporting, and writing the proverbial new high in low every single day means that they could be missing one overriding truth about the health of the most remarkable presidential candidate since at least 1864.
In short, our amateurs exercise with the very professional Hare Psychopathy Checklist suggests that if you were betting on it, you d probably want to bet that Donald Trump couldn t pass a sanity test open book.
If that isn t terrifying, I don t know what is.
Trump is the GOP nominee, and although Clinton will probably wipe the floor with him in the election, the fact that someone as hateful and mentally unstable as Trump has gotten this close to the White House should worry us all.Here s a video from Olbermann, which goes through the test and Trump s results:Featured image via screenshot