Donald Trump has had a hell of a week having to accept that his closest friends and loved ones are abandoning him in his mission to single-handedly destroy America.Earlier this week, Trump s own kids Ivanka and Don broke the news that they won t be voting for their father in the primary.
Today, another harsh blow was delivered to Trump his top surrogate, Michael Cohen, has just revealed that he won t be voting for the business mogul either because he s actually registered as a Democrat!Cohen made this confession on Thursday night to CNN hosts John Berman and Kate Bolduan, who were absolutely shocked by this news.
In speaking about RNC chair Reince Priebus and the nominating process, Cohen let it slip that he wasn t really on Trump s side after all.
Cohen, who is actually the executive vice-president of the Trump Organization, complained about the so-called rigged delegate rules and said: I think Reince Priebus has an obligation not just to the RNC but really to the American people.
.
He s supposed to keep the Republican Party unified.
That s what his job really is.
And he s not doing that, and he s doing a terrible job at it.
Do I personally, as a voter, as a supporter of Mr. Trump, believe that the process is rigged?
I do.
I think that the establishment does not want Mr. Trump to be the nominee.
Me, personally, I m actually a registered Democrat.
So I don t really care about Reince Priebus.
Berman and Bolduan hardly expected this response and freaked out.
Berman cried, Wait!
You can t vote?!
and Bolduan did a double take, asking, You re not voting for Donald Trump?!
Cohen pretty much dismissed their questions and simply replied, Not in the primary.
Amused, Berman recalled how strange it was that Trump s biggest so-called supporters wouldn t actually be supporting him at all.
Berman said, So his kids can t vote, and you can t vote in the primary.
Cohen tried to cover up how baffling the entire situation was by launching into a bizarre conversation about how he wished Trump could be his father.
Cohen said: Well, I d like to be one of his children.
I d like to be one of them, but no, I m not voting in the primary.
I m a registered Democrat.
Berman still couldn t get over how the candidate s own family and supporters wouldn t be voting for him.
Berman shook his head and said: Man, he s losing votes from his family and the people who work for him.
Then, in a rant ignorant enough to be mistaken for something Trump himself might say, Cohen dismissed Berman s concerns and claimed that Trump didn t need those votes anyway.
Cohen, who previously supported Obama in 2008, bragged: You don t have to worry about Mr. Trump.
He s polling at 50 plus percent.
This is his hometown.
You can watch this ridiculous interview below: Featured image via Gage Skidmore