Donald Trump s approval rating plummeted after his disastrous attempt to get support for his American Health Care Act (Trumpcare) crashed and burned.
It was a disastrous health care bill to begin with, proving to be higher in cost while stripping millions of Americans of life-saving health care and Trump paid for it with his lowest approval ratings yet.
Trump is swimming in bad news, but the latest info about the Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare) is about to make it worse.Apparently, the GOP s effort to do away with Obamacare has created quite the opposite effect Obamacare is now more popular than it s ever been.
Since the bill was signed in 2010, Americans are now more in favor of it than ever before:A new Gallup survey also echoes this monumental change in the last five months alone, Obamacare approval skyrocketed 13 percentage points, and part of that change has been thanks to the GOP s failure to provide a better solution.
The Gallup survey discovered that 55% of America now approves of the Affordable Care Act:Gallup s Jim Norman states that this has big implications for the law and directly affects what the Republican Party may or may not be able to do in the future.
Norman said: If that majority holds, it would be a significant development.
Politically, it creates a major obstacle to Trump and Congress ongoing efforts to change or replace the law.
In future elections, it could turn the GOP s opposition to the law from an asset into a liability.
More importantly in the daily lives of Americans, it might mean that the most sweeping changes to the nation s healthcare system in decades will remain the law of the land for the foreseeable future.
Another poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation discovered that although there was equal opposition and approval for Obamacare, 64% of Americans were pleased that Trumpcare failed because it was obviously far worse.
The majority of Americans (61%) are now also holding Trump and the GOP responsible for the future of America s health care, and strongly believe Trump should find a way to improve Obamacare, not repeal it.This information is sure to set Trump on fire, considering how desperate he was to get rid of the bill as soon as he began his role as POTUS.
Given the fact that his ideas and agendas are more unpopular than ever, his presidency might be filled with Obama s policies and laws for quite a while.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images