It s no secret that Donald Trump is cruel to women.
Look how he describes and refers to women he doesn t like (for personal or non-personal reasons).
He s cheated on two of his wives, resulting in some ugly and highly publicized divorces.
But it s his 1990 divorce from his first wife, Ivana, that has people interested, and for good reason.The divorce, first filed by Ivana due to extreme cruel and inhuman treatment, is controversial and, often times, muddy.
Ivana Trump once revealed Donald Trump had raped her in a violent assault when he tore off her clothes and forced himself on her.
The allegation was made in a sworn deposition by Trump, and was reported in the 1993 book Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump.
Ivana Trump has since claimed that she did not mean it in a literal or criminal sense, but the affidavit still stands.But still, details of cruel and inhuman treatment lie buried in the sealed documents of the divorce, which is why the New York Times sued last month to have them unsealed.
In the state of New York, all divorce records are sealed unless determined by a judge to be useful in special circumstances when dealing with intense public interest.Of course, given the fact that Donald Trump is running for President of the United States, and coupled with his past statements regarding women, the public does indeed have an interest in figuring out what kind of husband Donald Trump was, and how he treated his first wife.
Or so the New York Times contends.But it s Donald and Ivana Trump who are panicking and scared out of their minds at what s possibly to come.Marc Kasowitz and other attorneys from the New York-based firm Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman, as well as longtime Trump Organization lawyer Michael Cohen, wrote in a brief to the judge, Supreme Court Justice Frank Nervo:In seeking to invade the Trumps 26-year-old confidential matrimonial files, the Times and Gannett, as shown in Mr. Trump s filing in opposition to their motion, rely on entirely unprecedented and erroneous arguments that are contrary to the protections afforded by the Legislature over 150 years ago The courts [in New York] have never overridden those protections because of a purported public interest in vetting political candidates.
There is simply no importance, overriding or otherwise, to unsealing the matrimonial records of a political candidate.Well, if he s a rapist, that would be of some importance.It s also worth noting that Cohen (remember, an attorney), said in an interview regarding Ivana s rape allegation, It is true.
You cannot rape your spouse.
And there s very clear case law.
The marital rape exemption law in new York was struck down in 1984, three years before Ivana alleged Trump assaulted her.
As of 1993, all 50 states have criminalized marital rape, as it s seen as form of domestic violence.What s even more baffling is the Trump campaign is so desperate to keep these records sealed, they made a stab at Hillary Clinton s medical records as precedence:Secretary Clinton is not revealing her medical records, even though her medical condition is being raised as an issue in the current campaign.
Nor could or should they be compelled to do so.First off, she has released them (Trump as not), and second, the campaign s candidate has repeatedly slammed Clinton for not doing so earlier nor could or should they be compelled to do so?
That s rich.Ivana Trump s lawyer, Ira Garr, filed a brief to Nervo pointing out that unsealing the records would be unfair to Ivana because she isn t running for any public office.
Fair enough, but it s his second reason that should make people think he thinks people are too stupid to care:Garr said in a brief interview Tuesday that he doesn t see how the divorce-court record would alter anyone s opinion of the real estate investor and GOP presidential nominee because people have either factored such issues into their voting decisions or don t view those points as relevant to their decision.
Does anybody doubt that Donald isn t that nice to women?
Garr asked.
Could you watch his interview with Megyn Kelly and say, He s nice to women?
Considering he accused Megyn Kelly of having her menstrual cycle during a debate, no.These lawyers are just as dumb as their clients.Judge Frank Nervo has not indicated when and if he release them, but the trump lawyers sudden legal briefs are telling that a decision could come soon.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images