ILLEGAL ALIENS WHO CAN T Vote Are Knocking On Doors For HILLARY While Veterans Campaign For Trump They broke the law or their parents broke the law to enter our country illegally.
Of course, they had the same opportunity to apply for citizenship and become legal citizens of the United States as every other legal immigrant, but they chose instead to ignore our laws.
Now they re campaigning for Hillary so they don t lose their ability to take advantage of all the benefits legal American citizens enjoy.
On the other side of the spectrum, men and women who ve served our nation are out campaigning for the only candidate who is making the care of our veterans one of his top priorities Unable to vote in the presidential election, a group of undocumented immigrants is knocking on doors in Northern Virginia in support of Hillary Clinton and other Democratic candidates, convinced that the outcome of the vote will determine whether they can secure a path to citizenship in the country they have known since childhood.The vote-seekers are some of the 750,000 recipients of temporary legal status under the Obama administration s 2012 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
They are acutely aware that Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has pledged to deport the nation s 11 million illegal immigrants and that under a GOP-controlled Congress, past attempts at immigration reform have failed.
All DACA recipients should take this on as an added responsibility, to change the power structure, said Luis Angel Aguilar, 28, who received his protected status in 2013 and is helping to coordinate the effort.
Our voices need to be heard, he said.Four years after the DACA program was launched, many of the beneficiaries are still in a kind of limbo, unsure about whether their status would be renewed under a President Trump and concerned that their family members could be deported.The uncertainty was underscored earlier this year when the U.S. Supreme Court let stand a federal court injunction against an expanded version of DACA and Obama s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents program, which could benefit an additional 4 million people.
The only way to resolve this is through the election, said Kim Propeack, political director of CASA In Action.
There s been a recent uptick of despair and energy around that 4-4 vote.
WP They [veterans] fought hard to protect us, they are going to come first in a Trump administration.
Donald J. TrumpOn July 11, 2016 Trump spoke before We need to clean up the corruption in government and Hillary Clinton will never be able to do it.
She s incompetent and has proven time and time again that she doesn t have what it takes.
Doesn t have it, Trump said.
Crooked Hillary Clinton, sadly, is the secretary of the status quo, and wherever Hillary Clinton goes, corruption and scandal follow.
Included in Trump s 10-point plan for reform at the Department of Veterans Affairs is a proposal to establish a White House hotline, to be answered not by a computer but by a human being, to field complaints about the department.
The hotline would ensure that every complaint is dealt with, Trump said, and any issue left unaddressed would be brought directly to the president himself, so that he could personally deal with it.Military Times Republican operatives are confident that if they turn out veterans, they ll turn out more votes for Trump.
Being a veteran, your skin s a lot thicker, said Mendoza, 24, who noted that he s both Hispanic and a veteran.
It conditions you to seeing that bigger world and seeing past what someone says off the cuff.
The instant bond that veterans form with each other often defuses tension inherent in political canvassing and opens doors that would otherwise be closed, said Bob Carey, a former Navy captain and the RNC s veterans outreach director.
But their political utility goes beyond that.
Veterans have a disproportionate ability to gain the trust of any voter, Carey said.
The military is the last institution that has the trust and respect of the general public.
Veterans vote at a higher rate than civilians, but younger veterans are less likely to vote than their peers.
That s no surprise to Staab.
He was deployed to southern Iraq in 2008 where his unit received mail once a month and had to create a base virtually from scratch at an abandoned air field.
He didn t even remember to vote in the presidential election back home.Many veterans feel out of place after returning from war, and Staab and Mendoza, who returned from Iraq more recently are no exception.
Mendoza is still dizzied by the carefree way some of his fellow students act.
People take being a citizen for granted, he said.Staab now runs the GOP s Reno office and has recruited Mendoza and a cadre of veteran volunteers to call other veterans and knock on their doors.
In Nevada, the veterans outreach has a dual purpose helping Trump and also the GOP s senate candidate, Rep. Joe Heck, a brigadier general in the Army reserves.