Trump picked a petty, embarrassing fight with the Mayor of London after a terror attack rocked the British capital now Mayor Sadiq Khan just finished it.In an unprecedented demand, Mayor Khan asked the British government to cancel Trump s planned state visit in response to the way he treated the United Kingdom in the aftermath of a terror attack.
Trump had made headlines the world over when he quickly jumped on the tragedy in London to push for his Muslim ban, scare people, and repeatedly smear the Mayor of London (who, it s no coincidence, happens to be Muslim).At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is "no reason to be alarmed!"
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2017Pathetic excuse by London Mayor Sadiq Khan who had to think fast on his "no reason to be alarmed" statement.
MSM is working hard to sell it!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 5, 2017The attacks were complete lies.
(Trump may very well be the first president to ever be sued for libel.)
The London Mayor has been praised both in England and across the globe for his measured and competent response to the attacks on his city.On Monday, Trump s chief flack Sarah Huckabee claimed Trump had not taken Khan s remarks out of context despite that being exactly what had happened.
No apology was issued.Due to this and Trump s other unhinged ranting about London, Mayor Khan said it was time for the British government to stand up to this behavior.Appearing on Channel 4 News on Monday evening, Khan said Trump was wrong about many things and that his state visit should not go ahead.
I don t think we should roll out the red carpet to the president of the USA in the circumstances where his policies go against everything we stand for, he said.
When you have a special relationship it is no different from when you have got a close mate.
You stand with them in times of adversity but you call them out when they are wrong.
There are many things about which Donald Trump is wrong.
One of the ways Trump is wrong is in his use of a terror attack in London to promote his Muslim ban.
Foreign policy experts have repeatedly warned that barring Muslims from immigrating or visiting the United States is not only unethical and unconstitutional, but it actually hurts the military s ability to combat terrorism at home and abroad.Conservative British Prime Minister Theresa May seemed to suggest Trump was out of line in attacking London s mayor.
(She stopped short of naming Trump personally, which has infuriated many in the country.)
You just praised the work that Sadiq Khan has been doing as mayor, another reporter asked.
Donald Trump responded to the attack by mocking Sadiq Khan.
Would a period of silence on his part now be welcome?
As I ve said, I m very clear that I m very clear that Sadiq is doing a good job as mayor of London, she said before moving on.England by-and-large hates Trump.
In one recent poll, just 18 percent of the British public said they approved of Trump.
In parliament, in yet another first, the country s top politicians held a debate to argue whether Trump should be barred entry into the UK entirely due to his well-documented bigoted views.
The vote eventually went in favor of letting him come, but even many conservative politicians admitted it was mostly because banning the sitting president of the United States would be a bad diplomatic move.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images