When you re given a free pass by the government to pretty much make whatever you want with no responsibility if something devastating were to happen because of your product, you d probably make whatever the hell you wanted with no remorse.
After all, profit is more important that human life, right?
At least, that s what the government is telling gun manufacturers with the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act.
The law, prohibit(s) civil liability actions from being brought or continued against manufacturers, distributors, dealers, or importers of firearms or ammunition for damages, injunctive or other relief resulting from the misuse of their products by others.
With one of the reasons for the law literally being, To prevent the use of such lawsuits to impose unreasonable burdens on interstate and foreign commerce.
In other words, they don t want any silly lawsuit to get in the way of profit.On paper, it may look like it makes sense to not hold gun manufacturers liable for how their product is used.
After all, it s not their fault if a gun is not handled properly or used to harm someone else.
However, what so many fail to see is the fact that with no responsibility it gives gun manufacturers a free pass to basically make whatever they want, regardless of public safety.
If they can make it, people will buy it, and after that, well, they re off the hook.So, with all that being said, gun manufacturer Precision Syndicate, LLC made a gun for a client to look like the gun from Nintendo for the game Duck Hunt.
Calling it the Nintendo Glock.
The gun literally looks like a toy.via Facebook Here s the toy for comparison: It was always fun Duck Hunting and then Switching to Super Mario Bros. For some reason I would panic when I thought I shot the poor pup!
???
who else had fun with this?
#retro #retrogaminglife #nintendo #nintendocontroller #nintendozapper #zapper #supermariobros #duckhunt #nintendocartridge #1985A photo posted by [CXG]Conspiracy Xtreme Gaming (@conspiracyxtremegaming) on Mar 5, 2016 at 11:35pm PSTHowever, after posting the picture to their Facebook page about the gun, they apparently got two reactions; request for purchase, and/or outrage.
All in all, the image got over 8,000 comments, and nearly 150 thousand shares.
They then had to make a follow-up post stating:In light of the Nintendo Glock drama, we feel that the media and our fans need to know that this firearm will not be mass produced nor will it ever be.
This is a one off custom build for a friend of ours.
Do to the thousands of emails and messages we have received in the past 2 days we have been unable to contact everyone in a timely manner, please be patient we will get to you as soon as possible.
Thank you all for your support!
Oh, and please.. keep your guns locked up and away from children, it s common sense.via FacebookHow nice of them to be condescending enough to remind people to lock up their guns to keep them away from children.
If only they could use that common sense know-how to think twice before making a gun that looks exactly like a popular toy that children would want to play with.Now, say this gun were to get into the hands of a child for any number of reasons.
This gun manufacturer is essentially off the hook, because assuming it functions properly and has no mechanical faults that cause injury, if someone were to just use the gun, the maker has no liability according to the law.There will certainly be people who disagree that gun manufacturers should have liability over how their product is used, but when something is made that so obviously could be mistaken for a toy, a toy that a child could point and shoot, there needs to be better well regulated standards to guns.
After all, the Second Amendment was written for the intent to arm the state militias, not so gun enthusiasts can have firearms that look like toys or so that gun manufacturers can make as much profit as possible.Featured Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images