Donald Trump is running a campaign that does nothing but tap into the hateful underbelly of American populism.
However, this time, it seems the guy has gone to a new low, when nobody believed it possible.
Rachel Maddow took Trump to task for a disturbing campaign stop he made in Suffolk County New York which just happens to be where a Latino immigrant was murdered in an anti-immigrant hate crime.
The crime happened in November 2008, just as we were electing President Barack Obama for the first time.Maddow says of Trump s decision to stop there: In presidential politicking, symbolism is a deliberate choice.
And racial provocation is something with a deep and resonant history.
It is one thing to do that as a small-fry politician; it is another thing to do it as a front-runner for a major party s presidential nomination.
Being a presidential front-runner is a powerful thing.
It can also be a dangerous thing if you want it to be.
Trump chose to stop in Patchogue, New York, right near where 37-year-old Marcel Lucero was murdered by a gang of racist teenagers.
One of the teens, Jeffrey Conroy, is currently serving 25 years in prison for manslaughter.
The prosecution also got him convicted of a hate crime.
Further, it was discovered, aftr Lucero s death and the reasoning behind it came to light, that it was just the most brutal in a long line of attack on Latino immigrants.
Maddow continued: Patchogue s history of racist and fatal hate crimes against Latino immigrants is not necessarily a nationally-famous story.
But it is a New York-famous story.
Donald Trump has not yet won the Republican nomination he s still trying to win the New York primary but campaigning in Patchogue today on the street where Marcelo Lucero was murdered, it means something specific in New York.
Now, considering what happened at that site and considering Trump s heavy, divisive, and dangerous anti-immigrant rhetoric, there can be no questions what kind of message the current GOP frontrunner was trying to send with that particular campaign stop, and it is a dangerous one.If even one immigrant winds up being attacked by a Trump supporter after this, The Donald himself needs to be held responsible.Watch the video below, courtesy of MSNBC.
The Trump remarks start at 11:43.Featured image via video screen capture