There was literally no chance that the religious right wasn t going to scream bloody murder over Georgia Governor Nathan Deal vetoing an anti-LGBT bill, but they re taking it a little bit worse than I d expected:The group Texas Values released an angry statement after Georgia s governor, Nathan Deal, announced Monday that he would veto so-called religious liberty legislation.
Disney and other companies had threatened to boycott the state if the governor signed the bill into law.
Will Disney now ban you from wearing a cross outside your shirt at their parks?
Texas Values president Jonathan Saenz fumed.
Will a Catholic priest be forced to remove his white collar when he takes a picture with Mickey Mouse?
This is how extreme the attacks now are on religious freedom, it s a zero tolerance policy for religious freedom.
Because everyone knows that wearing symbols of your faith is EXACTLY the same as openly discriminating against people you don t like.
Once again, religious conservatives are confusing religious freedom with the freedom to impose their religion on others.I probably shouldn t be surprised that the veto is sending conservative Christians into a blind rage.
They were just told that sopping up to religious fanatics is less important to Republicans than sopping up to big corporations.
That must come as a shock to the religious right that s spent decades distorting Christianity so conservatives would worship the rich and allow Corporate America to do whatever it wants with God s blessing.Finding out that you re a useful idiot and that you ve been tossed aside has to sting a little.But Corporate America is concerned with profit and there is no profit in continuing to discriminate against the LGBT community.
Quite the opposite as pro-LGBT boycotts are far more expensive than anti-LGBT boycotts.
That s kind of what happens when you re on the losing side of a culture war issue: You lose.
And you keep losing until all of your wailing and gnashing of teeth is a buzzing in the background.
It s the same buzzing that helps me sleep at night along with a tall, warm glass of conservative tears.Yum.Featured image via camelotinn-anaheim.com