In a perfect world, there would be extraordinarily qualified presidential candidates coming from both sides of the aisle.
We d have a battle of the minds.
Those who differed in matters of political opinion and policy approach, but all respectable choices.
Alas, we don t live in a perfect world.
Currently, the United States has one major political party with two very respectable candidates, either of which would make a fine choice as Commander-in-Chief, varying only in strategy, but not terribly in ideology.
The other major political party is basically made up of rejects from their high school student council who grew up and couldn t get into leadership roles within their home owner s association, so they decided to go in to politics.
To be blunt, there is NO good choice for president running for the Republicans.
They all make shit up as they go along.Case in point: Ben Carson.When asked a question regarding Christian values as compared to the social values of Republicans, and how they really don t go together, Carson replied: My stance is that, we the people have the responsibility to take care of the indigent in our society.
It s not the government s job.
You can read the constitution all you want, it never says that it is the government s job and I think where we ve gotten confused.
In the old days of America when communities were separated by hundreds of miles, why were they able to thrive?
Because if it was harvest time and the farmer was up in the tree picking apples and fell down and broke his leg, everybody pitched in and harvested his crops for him.
If somebody got killed by a bear, everybody took care of their family.
Who the hell is getting killed by a bear?
Where the hell are they living?
And is it a bear, such as one you d find in the forest, or one you d find in the Castro.
These are all questions we d like to have answered.
Don t leave us hanging like this, Ben.
Sure, he s talking about the old days, but how far back are we going?
If we re talking about the days when the nation was founded, well, we re not exactly living in the same sort of society with the same needs, and we now have different resources available.Carson s broader point seems to be, we don t need government if we can take care of ourselves and our communities.
However, the nation is composed of many different types of communities that are all represented in this thing we call government.
Which is an organizational structure in this little thing we like to call, civilization.
Without which, we would slip into chaos and despair in what some would call Social Darwinism.
So, while Carson s story is sweet, and weird, but actually kind of scary, the everybody that took care of the family is the community structure.
Carson actually makes a very good argument for liberals, and especially Hillary Clinton s it takes a village argument.Anyway, watching Carson talk about a bear attack is very entertaining, and you ll likely watch it at least five times.
So, enjoy!
When asked about social values, Ben Carson reflects on ye olde times, when bear attacks were the norm.
pic.twitter.com/eOZH4mR1Jz Mashable News (@MashableNews) February 18, 2016Video/Featured image from Twitter/Wikimedia