Everyone had their suspicions as to the timing of FBI Director James Comey s letter regarding Hillary Clinton s email server that he later rescinded in relation to the election.
In addition, many were fairly certain that Russia had direct involvement in our election.
And now, as it turns out, both things definitely did affect the election, and the first person who will agree with that definitely seems to be Hillary Clinton herself.Breaking her silence while speaking to donors about what seemed to directly impact the election away from her winning, Clinton didn t hold back and called out Russian President Vladimir Putin by name.According to NBC News: Hillary Clinton told donors on Thursday night that her loss was partly due to U.S. election hacks directed by Russian President Vladimir Putin and FBI director James Comey s election-eve letter to Congress related to her use of a private email server.
Putin publicly blamed me for the outpouring of outrage by his own people that is the direct line between what he said back then and what he did in this Election, Clinton is heard saying in an audio recording first obtained by the New York Times and verified as authentic by several sources present at the event to NBC News.
Clinton also said: He is determined not only to score a point against me, which he did, but also to undermine our democracy.
And as it turns out, Putin was directly involved with the hacks and how the information gained was to be used.
In fact, NBC News reported: Putin s objectives were multifaceted, a high-level intelligence source told NBC News.
What began as a vendetta against Hillary Clinton morphed into an effort to show corruption in American politics and to split off key American allies by creating the image that [other countries] couldn t depend on the U.S. to be a credible global leader anymore, the official said.
Putin very clearly wanted Donald Trump to win and used information gained to release only what he wanted to skilfully get what he wanted out the the U.S. election.And now that all of this has been revealed, President Obama is vowing retaliation against Russia, saying: I think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take action and we will at a time and place of our own choosing some of it may be explicit and publicized; some of it may not be.
And while Donald Trump and his campaign are clearly pleased with the election results and want to peacefully continue a transition while thinking all accusations against Russia are just excuses for a Clinton loss, evidence proves quite to the contrary.Hopefully, we will get to the bottom of this and justice will prevail.Featured Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images