A week after President Trump endorsed Ron DeSantis for Florida governor via Twitter, a handful of billionaires have thrown their support behind the three-term Republican congressman, per Politico.Here s President Trump s tweet endorsing Rep. Ron DeSantis for governor of Florida.
Trump tweeted: Congressman Ron DeSantis is a brilliant young leader, Yale and then Harvard Law, who would make a GREAT Governor of Florida.
He loves our Country and is a true FIGHTER!
Congressman Ron DeSantis is a brilliant young leader, Yale and then Harvard Law, who would make a GREAT Governor of Florida.
He loves our Country and is a true FIGHTER!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 22, 2017Why it matters: The monetary support DeSantis has received could prove instrumental in his race, because, in a state as big as Florida, where a week s worth of saturation TV during next year s general election could cost as much as $3 million, cash is king, per Politico.Supporters include casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, hedge fund heiress Rebekah Mercer, investment tycoon Foster Friess, as well as other donors who have funded Trump s 2016 campaign and the conservative Koch brothers network, per Politico.
AxiosRepresentative Ron DeSantis (R-FL) is a fighter.
Here s an example of how DeSantis took on the fake Trump-Russian collusion story:Sun Sentinel DeSantis, who hasn t officially announced his candidacy, thanked Trump in a press release with the headline, President Trump Backs Ron DeSantis for Governor of Florida.
I m grateful to have the president s support and appreciate what he has done, DeSantis said, adding praise for Trump achievements that have pleased conservatives: recognizing Jerusalem as Israel s capital, signing the tax reform legislation, and appointing conservative judges.DeSantis, a Republican from Ponte Vedra Beach, has been a strong supporter of Trump.In August, he proposed cutting off funding for special counsel Robert Mueller s investigation into possible ties between the Trump campaign and Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election.DeSantis proposal, which went nowhere, would have stopped money for the investigation 180 days after it becomes law.
And it would have prevented Mueller from investigating matters that occurred before Trump announced his presidential campaign.Also in August, DeSantis used an appearance at the Palm Beach County Republican Party s annual lobsterfest to advertise his pro-Trump credentials.As he delivered a combination political speech and invocation, the big screens at the front of the room flashed a picture of DeSantis, his wife, their infant daughter, the president and First Lady Melania Trump outside the White House.DeSantis said the president complimented his wife on her appearance.At that Palm Beach County appearance, and at events throughout the state, DeSantis has been laying the groundwork for a 2018 candidacy for the Republican nomination to run for governor.Here s Ron DeSantis blasting the press and our government agencies for giving Barack Obama a free pass over his support for Hezbollah:The Trump effect: DeSantis reflects the shifting type of Republican candidate under Trump: he s a Fox News contributor, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, a supporter of Trump s recent decision to make Jerusalem the home of the U.S. embassy in Israel, and he opposes Special Counsel Bob Mueller s Russia probe (even calling for it to end after just six months).