Donald Trump drew a line in the sand: Pass the Obamacare repeal and replace bill or else.Then it blew up in his face.
Republicans created a bill so unpopular that he couldn t even get it to pass the House.
Trump told them to pass the bill anyway and Republicans ignored him.
The legendary dealmaker failed spectacularly.
So he s blaming Democrats.In a presser held shortly after he and Paul Ryan agreed to pull the bill rather than face a humiliating defeat during voting, Trump said this outcome was actually better than passing the bill because now the Affordable Care Act will collapse on its own.
If that reeks of desperation, it only got worse from there.
Just two minutes in, Trump claimed the failure of this Republican bill made Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer the real losers.
That is an astounding amount of deflection.FULL REMARKS: @POTUS on the GOP health care bill, which has been pulled.
https://t.co/XSqXSToBHV pic.twitter.com/RiIhIA7N35 Fox News (@FoxNews) March 24, 2017 Now they own Obamacare.
They own it.
100% own it.
This is not Republican healthcare.
This is not anything but Democrat healthcare.
They have Obamacare for a little bit longer until it ceases to exist, which it will at some point in the near future.
The fact that Democrats own Obamacare isn t exactly breaking news.
They ve owned it for seven years, and in the meantime, the president whose name is on it was re-elected in a landslide.
It seems unlikely that Schumer or Pelosi are particularly worried about the ACA being seen as Democrat healthcare.
The healthcare bill is currently at its most popular point ever.Despite Republican lawmakers efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, a new survey shows that support for the health care law has reached an all-time high.According to the Pew Research Center which conducted the poll, 54 percent of 1,503 adults surveyed between February 7 and 12 approve of the law while 43 percent disapprove.As ever, Trump is showing the country that he has an inability to accept responsibility for his actions.
When he strikes out, he blames everyone but himself.
It s the judges.
It s the illegal voters.
It s the media.
It s the Democrats.
It s never Donald J. Trump, epic buffoon.
Featured image via CNN