This is how the left thinks.
Just a few minutes after a terrorist murdered people in NYC, Jake Tapper chose the worst timing ever to weigh in on his thoughts about Allahu Akbar CNN anchor Jake Tapper called the Islamic phrase Allahu Akbar beautiful minutes after reports of a terrorist attack in New York City, Tuesday on The Lead.
Tapper was interviewing CNN s crime and justice reporter Shimon Prokupecz when he chimed in to give his opinion on the nature of the terrorist chant.
The Arabic chant Allahu Akbar, God is great sometimes said under the most beautiful of circumstances and too often we hear of it being said in moments like this, Tapper said.Jake Tapper: "Allahu Akbar is sometimes said under the most beautiful of circumstances".
Our media has failed us.
pic.twitter.com/mkblSjis0R Based Monitored (@BasedMonitored) November 1, 2017We ve watched the news media tiptoe around Islam for so long.
It s really sickening to watch.
Fox News is guilty of it too Martha MacCallum tweeted shortly after the attack that the terrorist said God is great Um, no!
He did not say that!
The pc crowd is determined to smooth this over If you are on twitter, please respond to Martha to tell her he did not say God is great C mon Martha!
We know better!BREAKING: LIKELY VEHICULAR TERRORIST ATTACK NYC.
DRIVER YELLS "GOD IS GREAT" Video of man w/mask & gun.
him on scene.
He is alive.
Martha MacCallum (@marthamaccallum) October 31, 2017Then we have NBC and CNN calling the Islamic terror attack a truck incident .
They even continued after the incident was determined to be a terror attack!UPDATE: At least 8 killed in lower Manhattan truck incident NBC News (@NBCNews) October 31, 2017We have to call the press and our politicians out on this effort to sanitize this horrible attack.
This man is an animal OUR REPORT ON THE ATTACK SAYS IT ALL:THIS IS A DEVELOPING A STORY THAT WILL BE UPDATED: Terrorism has hit Lower Manhattan again Eight dead and 15 injured after a terrorist ran over pedestrians in Lower Manhattan today.
Horrible!A man in a rented Home Depot truck ( rented in NJ) ran over people on the bike path in Lower Manhattan but was stopped by a bus full of disabled children.
The terrorist then got out of the truck and started running around with a paintball gun and a pellet gun in each hand pointing at bystanders (see video below).One witness wrote on Twitter, Jesus!
A car just ran over two people and then crashed into a school bus.
I see two dead bodies and Citibikes on the floor destroyed.
The terrorist ran around with fake guns:The New York Police Department reported: The suspect had an imitation firearm and was shot by the police, although it appears the suspect survived that shooting.
The vehicle struck multiple people on the path.
There are several fatalities and numerous people injured, the NYPD wrote.
The vehicle continued south striking another vehicle.
The suspect exited the vehicle displaying imitation firearms & was shot by NYPD.
The suspect is in custody.BREAKING: Eyewitness Video Appears To Show Suspect In Deadly Manhattan Attack pic.twitter.com/hkHJidG40s Breaking911 (@Breaking911) October 31, 2017America has fallen asleep again we are victims of our pc culture.
Being honest and telling the truth about radical Islamic extremism will only help us prevent something like this.
We MUST begin to address it and NOT tiptoe around it.PLEASE PRAY FOR THESE INNOCENT AMERICANS:WATCH: Witness describes incident in Manhattan: "I saw a truck a white pick-up truck going down the bicycle lane & running people over" pic.twitter.com/ZRVoOiariH Breaking911 (@Breaking911) October 31, 2017A YELLOW BUS FILLED WITH DISABLED CHILDREN WAS HIT BY THE TRUCK:UPDATE: According to eyewitness the yellow bus intentionally blocked the pickup truck in order to avoid more havoc.
pic.twitter.com/9tnZE2hBmj News_Executive (@News_Executive) October 31, 2017SNAP MAPS:Incredible how quickly footage of something like the reported shooting in lower Manhattan surfaces on Snap Maps pic.twitter.com/yZSQS66DW2 Damon Beres (@dlberes) October 31, 2017