A very pregnant Kerry Washington appeared on Real Time with Bill Maher on Friday, and crushed Donald Trump in a way only a mother could.The Republican nominee is hoping that women will vote for him because he introduced a child care initiative that supposedly gives paid maternity leave to new mothers.
The big problem is that Trump doesn t even offer paid maternity leave to his own employees, forcing them to use vacation days and sick days as their unpaid leave.
Furthermore, Donald Trump himself is not a fan of pregnancy, once calling it an inconvenience.
So when Washington sat down at the table, she was ready to rip Trump a new one.
There s been a lot of talk about it being insulting to women, but I actually think it s insulting to families and to workers because there s no paternity leave, there s no family leave!
Washington said.
For Hillary Clinton, these issues and these policies are not about women s policies.
this is about economic policy, because we understand in this country that if families are able to take care of each other, we do better as a nation.
I choose that candidate over the guy who brags about having never changed a diaper.
He has literally bragged about never having changed a diaper!
That s crazy.
Indeed, Trump made it clear in 2005 that he has never changed a diaper for any of his five kids and claimed that it s because husbands shouldn t do that sort of thing.
There s a lot of women out there that demand that the husband act like the wife, and you know, there s a lot of husbands that listen to that.
So you know, they go for it.
If I had a different type of wife I probably wouldn t have a baby, ya know, cause that s not my thing.
I m really, like, a great father, but certain things you do and certain things you don t. It s just not for me.
In fact, Trump would rather not do anything to take care of children except provide money.
I mean, I won t do anything to take care of them, he added.
I ll supply funds and she ll take care of the kids.
Washington wasn t finished with Trump yet, however, going on to explain that voting for him would against our best interests.
There s a bigger problem, which is right now, we are in a political climate where we are being led by the media no offense to vote for the loudest candidate and the meanest, bulliest candidate in the playground, and that we are voting based on a cult of personality or a cult of celebrity rather than voting in our own best interest.
I think if we really look at policy, voting for Trump is voting against our best interests as Americans as workers, as people of color, as women.
Not voting is voting against ourselves.
She also explained why she supports Hillary Clinton.
I would rather vote for the candidate who is willing to address mistakes, address issues, take responsibility, be accountable, be a part of a changed solution rather than a candidate who continues to perpetuate fear and hate in the present moment.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump can t be trusted do what he says he will do for the country when he can t even be bothered to do those things for the people who work for him.Featured image via screen capture