It s finally happened.
The baby parts lie fabricated by two felons at the deceptively-named Center for Medical Progress has been mindlessly parroted throughout right-wing media that they are now claiming the women s health organization violates federal law by performing later-term abortions in order to sell baby parts.
On Monday, O Reilly Factor, the discussion turned to Hillary Clinton s statement on abortion at the Fox News Town Hall.
Asked whether she supports late-term abortions, Clinton said that it should be an option if the life and health of the mother is at risk.
While this would seem sensible to even most adamantly anti-abortion individuals, Fox contributor Katie Pavlich naturally idiotsplained that Clinton is as evil as the most infected cyst on Satan s behind.
She was asked specifically about late-term abortion and there was an incredible poll that came out in January showing 80 percent of Americans, including 80 percent of women, think late-term abortion should be banned, Pavlich said, ignoring that Clinton had explained that the exception only pertained to saving the mother s life.Juan Williams pointed out that Planned Parenthood is very popular in the United States, but Pavlich had a dirty little secret to drop for her incredibly stupid crowd:Does she have any evidence to back her claim?
Of course not numerous investigations failed to prove that Planned Parenthood had sold a single baby part.
The organization did accept reimbursement for expenses, but it is a crime to actually profit from fetal tissue sale.
After the Right foamed at the mouth over the fake controversy surrounding Planned Parenthood, the organization stopped accepting reimbursement altogether to appease the Stupid Part of America.While it is obvious that the gerbils that operate Pavlich s brain are having difficulties overcoming such a baffling level of stupidity, you might be wondering: is this a work slowdown, or did they just say f*ck it and go on strike?
Does Planned Parenthood even perform late-term abortions?They don t. During the baby parts witch hunt, Richards was clear that the organization does not perform late-term abortions.
Politico reported at the time:When late-term abortions came up, Richards maintained that Planned Parenthood doesn t perform abortions past viability.
But as the National Right to Life Committee points out, Planned Parenthood clinics advertise and perform abortions well into the second trimester, even up to 24 weeks, while research says about a quarter of infants born at 22 weeks survive.Richards professed to have never heard of a baby surviving an abortion, even though survivors have testified before Congress.
She said a baby born alive after an attempted abortion should get medical care a significant concession given people on her side of the abortion debate, including Barack Obama in Illinois, have previously opposed legislation to protect born-alive infants.That s right.
Thanks to the continuous strain and lackluster benefits involved with operating Pavlich s thinkie-thingie and after numerous on-the-job deaths, the little critters in her head are refusing to work.
Rumor has it that they are demanding more break time, paid lunch, a raise, and better healthcare, and that Pavlich refuses the only explanation for the words that just came out of her mouth.Visibly perplexed that a human being can be this utterly ignorant, Williams shot back: This is exactly where I think Republicans go off the rails.
The people who tried to argue that Planned Parenthood was selling baby parts, they got indicted.
In Texas.
In a red state.
For violating people s rights and for making up stuff.
Watch this monumental reminder that it s important to VOTE BLUE in November below:Featured image via screengrab