Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook is becoming a large public figure to the world, and not just for creating the world famous social media website we ve all come to know so well.Mark first launched Facebook in February of 2004 with his college roommates at Harvard University.
The group then introduced Facebook to other campuses.
Facebook rapidly gained popularity, with just over a billion users by 2012.
As Facebook grew, so did Zuckerberg s net worth, which is now just over $50 billion USD.
However, Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, vowed to donate 99% of that wealth to charity.Since 2009, Forbes Magazine has created an annual list of the top 10 world s most powerful people, and in December of 2016 Mark Zuckerberg made that list.
Although Mark is at the bottom of the list, he is much younger than anyone else on the list.
However, Mark s influence doesn t stop there.
Recently, Mark Zuckerberg has launched a mission to give the entire world internet.Yet, what s the point of all this?
Does Mr. Zuckerberg just have a strong urge to make his mark, which is already a big one, or does he have a bigger plan?
In the last summer Facebook was accused by a group of conservatives of being liberally biased.
In response Mark met with some conservatives to ease their troubled minds.
Mark has never publicly taken a side in politics, but he s involved in a handful of organizations that terrify republicans.On January 3rd, Mark posted about some of his goals for the new year:Going into this challenge, it seems we are at a turning point in history.
For decades, technology and globalization have made us more productive and connected.
This has created many benefits, but for a lot of people it has also made life more challenging.
This has contributed to a greater sense of division than I have felt in my lifetime.
We need to find a way to change the game so it works for everyone.My work is about connecting the world and giving everyone a voice.
I want to personally hear more of those voices this year.
It will help me lead the work at Facebook and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative so we can make the most positive impact as the world enters an important new period.We are indeed at a turning point in history, and it s very intriguing to see what role Mark will play in it, maybe he will undo some of president-elect Donald Trump s damages come 2020.
If Donald Trump can rally up enough support to get elected, Mark Zuckerberg can easily do the same.Featured image via David Ramos/Getty Images