After a Texas sheriff whined about a piece of legislation, Donald Trump seriously offered to destroy the lawmaker who wrote it.Texas Republican Senator Bob Hall represents Rockwall County, and he plans to introduce a bill that prevents police from seizing assets unless there is a conviction first.Basically, the legislation allows suspects who are arrested to keep their property and finances intact until they are formally convicted of their alleged crimes by a court of law.It makes sense, but Rockwall County Sheriff Harold Eavenson complained to Trump at a meeting on Tuesday that Hall s bill isn t the kind of cooperation he has been demanding.
In short, the two bit sheriff thinks he can give orders to lawmakers.
In response to Eavenson s whining, Trump asked him to name the lawmaker and offered to destroy his career.
Everyone else laughed as if Trump was joking.
Trump didn t laugh with them.
He was being quite serious.EAVENSON: On asset state forfeiture, we got a state senator in Texas that was talking about introducing legislation to require conviction before we could receive that forfeiture money.
And I told him that the cartel would give a monument to him in Mexico if he could get that legislation passed.TRUMP: Who is the state senator?
Do you want to give his name?
We ll destroy his career.Here s the video via Twitter.Sheriff tells Trump a lawmaker is pushing legislation he doesn t wantTrump: Want to give his name?
We ll destroy his career.
(laughter) pic.twitter.com/7vLFAQOhw0 Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) February 7, 2017So let s just get this straight.
Because a state lawmaker plans to introduce a piece of legislation that doesn t jive with Trump s agenda and the agenda of a county sheriff, Trump is threatening to destroy the man s career.
This is the kind of thing that tyrants do.
And what s amazing is that this is a state lawmaker.
Frankly, Trump should stay out of local and state affairs of this kind.
Surely, the Texas Senate and House can decide if Hall s bill is worthy of passage.
Furthermore, voters elected Hall to represent them.
If they don t like what he is doing they will destroy him by not re-electing him.
Trump isn t only threatening a lawmaker, he is threatening democracy.
And he should not be allowed to get away with it.Read more:Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images