Donald Trump didn t exactly have the best showing in Iowa, at least, not for a guy who said just before the caucuses began that he would have a tremendous victory.
He ended up finishing 2nd, a full 4 points behind Ted Cruz and ended up tying with Marco Rubio for seven delegates.While he didn t throw a huge tantrum on stage, he isn t exactly being that presidential about it, either.
Behind the scenes you know he must be fuming mad.
Rarely is he silent on Twitter, and after the loss he didn t tweet a word; there was just silence for 14 long hours.
Losing Iowa finally brought Donald Trump back down to earth, and if you re able to gather anything from his latest tweet, it s that he doesn t handle losing very well.
Instead of preparing himself for the oath of office, and acting presidential, he had to find a way to offer an excuse.
And, boy did he.Pic via Twitter.Trump has been known for quite some time for saying anything and everything on the popular site, and normally we could care a less, but he needs to be called out for being a sore loser.
Shortly afterwards, he also posted a cryptic message that made it seem like he wasn t as interested in running for president anymore.
Really?
Here was what he said, in part: I will keep doing, but not worth it!
What exactly does this mean?
It must mean he doesn t think running for president is worth it unless people give him credit for things.
That, or self-funding his campaign isn t worth it enough for him to be president.
Either way, if Trump doesn t self-fund his own campaign he d be beholden to outside groups and special interests, and has already said himself that he doesn t want that.
So, according to his own rules, he has to fund his it.
There s no other way according to him.
And, to make matters worse, it s already been proven that he is, in fact, NOT self-funding his campaign.
Go figure.
So, what he says is not even true.
For more on this, visit HERE.
He s in this for the attention and nothing else.
He could care a less about Making America Great Again.
Pic via Twitter.Here s news for you, Donald: being president is much harder than this.
You don t give up after the first contest.
And, you sure as heck don t complain.
That loser front page cover from the New York Daily News must have really got to him.Featured image from Facebook