One of the countries Mooch and her taxpayer funded mom and daughters will be visiting was devastated by Ebola less than two years ago.
I m sure the first thing on their minds (after wondering where their next meal will come from or if they ll live past the age of 15 years) is gender inequality!
Way to waste hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars that could be spent to help unemployed Americans find jobs or to improve the health care for veterans.
Actresses Meryl Streep and Frieda Pinto are set to join First Lady Michelle Obama and First Daughters Sasha and Malia Obama for a trip to Liberia and Morocco in late June to promote the White House s Let Girls Learn female education initiative.
The First Family who will also be joined by Obama s mother, Mrs. Marian Robinson will visit Margibi County, Liberia, Marrakech, Morroco and Madrid, Spain from June 27 July 1, according to a White House press release.Pinto, 31, perhaps best known for her role in the Oscar-winning film Slumdog Millionaire, will join Michelle Obama at a school in Unification Town in Liberia on June 27 to meet with young girls to discuss the obstacles they face in attaining an education.
Pinto will moderate the discussion, and the pair will be joined by Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.Obama is also scheduled to visit a Peace Corps training facility in Kakata while in Liberia.The following day, Streep will join Obama and Pinto in Morocco for a discussion centered on girls education moderated by CNN s Isha Sesay.
On the final day of the trip, Obama will visit Madrid to deliver a speech highlighting the White House s Let Girls Learn initiative.
The First Lady will also meet Queen Letizia while in Spain.According to a rough cost estimate of the trip conducted by the Daily Mail, the First Family s overseas visit could cost as much as $300,000 in taxpayer funds for airfare alone.
The outlet reports that the First Lady s plane generally costs $11,684 per hour to operate; with roughly 25 hours of flight time scheduled, the airfare alone could come out to just under $300,000.The Mail notes that the First Lady s 2011 trip to Botswana and South Africa cost $424,142 in travel and plane crew fees.The three-country trip in late June could be Michelle Obama s final overseas trip as First Lady, as President Obama has just seven months left in office.Streep and Michelle Obama have teamed up to discuss gender equality before; in 2015, the pair gave a joint interview to More magazine in which the Oscar-winning actress said that women in America have not yet reached full equality with men.- BreitbartHas anyone else ever noticed how carefully Marian Robinson is covered up in all of the 5-star vacation photos that are taken by the mainstream media?
It s almost as if they don t want the American taxpayer to see that we re footing the bill for her to accompany her greedy daughter and ungrateful grandchildren on their 5-star vacations.
Can you spot Granny above?