In a stunning example of just how out-of-touch and heartless the Republican Party is towards women s healthcare, Vice President Mike Pence convened a meeting to discuss the topic of stripping maternity care requirements from health insurance and forgot to invite even a single woman.Needless to say, an image of the meeting is now blowing up on social media as Americans sit in stunned amazement that this is how Congress and the White House think of the women who make up half the country.Democratic politicians were equally outraged.
Massachusetts Representative Jim McGovern tweeted his anger over the sheer audacity of this meeting.
The picture clearly struck a nerve because the tweet quickly racked up thousands of retweets.This is outrageous: Not a single woman in the room as @Mike_Pence and @HouseGOP propose removing maternity coverage in #Trumpcare.
pic.twitter.com/wwY6WsN206 Jim McGovern (@RepMcGovern) March 23, 2017(Pictured above: Some dicks, a lot of assholes, but not a single uterus.
)And the group was taking women s health so seriously that it appears one member actually fell asleep during the meeting:@RepMcGovern @DaithiFall @mike_pence @HouseGOP and one dude who s clearly dozed off pic.twitter.com/7RV9qj2whN Kevin Byrne (@KevByrneBox) March 23, 2017Trump and Paul Ryan have been frantically offering deals to the fringe right-wing of the GOP in the hopes that they will agree to pass the Obamacare-replacement known as the American Health Care Act.
The bill has been nothing short of a disaster for Republicans.
For starters, it keeps many of the items that infuriate conservatives intact, while at the same time doing everything that Obamacare did, but less well.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that over 24 million people would likely lose their health insurance thanks to this bill.
For many people, it would also cause their premiums to skyrocket.Rather than fix the bill or better yet, keep the ACA Trump and Ryan are making huge concessions to the ultra-right.
One such concession is to remove the health care part of the health care bill.
Republicans are considering dropping the so-called essential health benefits of the ACA, allowing insurers to pick and chose what they want to cover.
Naturally, things like maternity care and emergency services would be the first to go.
Which brings us back to the House Freedom Caucus and its all-male members.In a dimly lit room, the group of conservative white men sat around a table and weighed the relative merits of providing maternity care to women.
To give one an idea of how dismissive these elderly GOPers were towards giving health care to women, here s how Trump s Press Secretary Sean Spicer framed it:Sean Spicer on healthcare: "I think if you're an older man you can generally say that you're not going to need maternity care."
Liam Stack (@liamstack) March 23, 2017The mothers, daughters, sisters, wives and in some cases, mistresses might see things a bit differently.Featured image via Twitter