It s Fox News, but that doesn t mean that everyone is blindly following Donald Trump.
Anchor Megyn Kelly fell off the Trump train right about the time of the first Republican presidential debate of the season, after which Trump accused Kelly of having blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever, all because she dared ask about Trump s history of sexism.It s been more than a year since that debate, and in that time, Trump the sexist has come front and center, especially after Trump was caught on a hot mic, saying that he likes to grab women by the pussy, and to confirm Trump s own words, nearly a dozen women are now accusing the self-described billionaire of sexual misconduct.Kelly, when interviewing Trump surrogate Newt Gingrich, suggested that Trump is a sexual predator.
At that point, the interview went off the rails.
Gingrich became very angry and said to Kelly,Kelly responded in the best way possible, I m not fascinated by sex, but I am fascinated by the protection of women and what we are getting in the oval office.
Every woman knows that when a man tells a woman she s fascinated by sex, he s not saying it in a way that means she d be welcome in Trump s locker room not at all.
When a man tells a woman she s fascinated by sex, especially in an argumentative context, he s calling her a whore.
While that statement might not have the same bite in 2016 that it might have had when Gingrich was young, the intent is there.
Gingrich is trying to discredit Kelly in the exact same way that Trump is trying to discredit his alleged victims.
A woman liking sex is still used as a defense in rape trials.
While men grabbing pussy, or talking about grabbing pussy, is just boys being boys.
Women talking about sex is taboo and any woman who dares talk about sex deserve whatever they have coming to them.Believe it or not, that exchange was the most rational part.
In the now familiar Trump tactic of I know you are but what am I, Gingrich went on to call Bill Clinton a sexual predator.
He even tried subtly bullying Kelly into say(ing) the words, Bill Clinton sexual predator.'
Kelly went on to say that on her show, they ve covered the Bill Clinton story and that she s interviewed Kathleen Willey, who has accused Clinton of rape (an accusation for which a grand jury found insufficient evidence).Here s the video:Gingrich has a grudge against Clinton, to be sure.
If you recall, the former Speaker of the House was one of architects of the Clinton impeachment, which only served to boost Clinton s popularity while it seriously hurt Congress s.Ironically, Gingrich and the other two Speakers who presided during the impeachment investigation and trials, were all sexual predators.
Dennis Hastert molested boys while a wrestling coach in Illinois and Bob Livingston had a string of affairs.
Gingrich was cheating on his second wife.
Before that, though, Gingrich earned the title of sexual predator, at least that s what he s accused of:One former aide describes approaching a car with Gingrich s daughters in hand, only to find the candidate with a woman, her head buried in his lap.
The aide quickly turned and led the girls away.
Another former friend maintains that Gingrich repeatedly made sexual advances to her when her husband was out of town.
On one occasion, he visited under the guise of comforting her after the death of a relative, and instead tried to seduce her.
In certain circles in the mid-1970s, Gingrich was developing a reputation as a ladies man.Source: SalonOh, and he also served his first wife her divorce papers while she was recovering from cancer surgery.
Yes, he and Trump are a perfect match.