A fashion editor for Vogue (see video below) has been brutalized on social media for her commentary about Melania Trump s choice of shoes for her visit to Texas during Tropical Storm Harvey.Just a sampling of the twitter feed criticizing this woman: Here s a sampling of Vogue Editor, Lynn Yaeger s take on herself and only herself.
Did we say she talks about herself?
Oy vey!In case you missed it, the press was aflutter when Melania exited the White House wearing stiletto heels.
Social media fashion experts and the liberal press went nuts.Yaeger s take on the shoes was dripping with snark just as nasty as can be: This morning, Mrs. Trump boarded Air Force One wearing a pair of towering pointy-toed snakeskin heels better suited to a shopping afternoon on Madison Avenue or a girls luncheon at La Grenouille.
In case you want to read the rest: Vogue It s awfully hateful to the First Family.The funny thing is that when Melania got to Texas she came off the plane in sneakers!
Gotcha!OUR PREVIOUS REPORT: President Trump and First Lady Melania traveled down to Texas today to assist with and show support for flood victims.
You d think the press would point out that this is a great gesture by the First Couple but that s not the case.
The press could only focus on the fact that the First Lady wore heels on her departure to Texas.
They mocked her saying she wasn t quite ready to help flood victims: Melania s shoes are impressive but perhaps not what I would wear to a city submerged in floodwaters, wrote Elizabeth Bruenig, an assistant editor at the Washington Post.Those stilettos should help her stay above the flood line https://t.co/dQ89fK18N5 Ryan Teague Beckwith (@ryanbeckwith) August 29, 2017Melania is wearing stilettos to a hurricane zone: https://t.co/29WIwlipab erica orden (@eorden) August 29, 2017She had on all black with a pair of black stilettos Who cares?
At least she made the trip!
We can t say the same for Michelle Obama during the Louisiana floods!We checked into what Michelle Obama wore to visit the Louisiana floods Oops!
She didn t go!
Remember that she was on vacation with Barack and the girls but then came home and didn t make the trip with Barack.We checked to see if Michelle went to New Jersey after Hurricane Sandy Oops!
She didn t go to that either!MELANIA GETS THE LAST LAUGH:Guess what Melania had on when she arrived in TEXAS?
TENNIS SHOES!
Is she ready enough now?First lady Melania Trump wore a baseball hat that said FLOTUS as she exited Air Force One upon landing in Corpus Christi, Texas, on Tuesday.First Lady Melania and President Trump arrive in Texas to be briefed on Harvey s devastating aftermath pic.twitter.com/Dz0IbQBRk3 Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) August 29, 2017The first lady had her hair pulled back in a ponytail under the black hat with white lettering.She also wore white sneakers, black pants, and a white button-up shirt.LOOKING GREAT!Read more: WE