Libertarian Presidential candidate Gary Johnson was asked by MSNBC host Mike Barnacle, What would you do if you were elected about Aleppo?
To the horror of viewers and hosts on the MSNBC panel, Gary Johnson responded, What is Aleppo?
Watch the Libertarian presidential candidate 7% of Americans say they plan to vote for in November:Gary Johnson was interviewed by Joe Rogan on CSPAN about his thoughts on the Syrian conflict.
Watch him fudge his way through a discussion about a country where he doesn t even know the name of the city at the epicenter of that conflict: GARY JOHNSON: I think we bear a responsibility for the refugee crisis and we should be taking on our fair share.
What is the mathematics of having disrupted 11 million Syrians, half the population?
When it comes to the U.S., I think we can deal with this effectively.
Should it be carte blanche?
No, but we can have a system in place to accept refugees right off the bat.
Other refugees might be questionable, backgrounds or whatever.
We ve directed enough of our resources on the military side to deal with the refugee side of it humanely and in a way that reflects what America is all about.JOE ROGAN: When I ve talked to military operatives though, they believe a proactive attack, or proactive action, is much more likely to stop ISIS or any-GARY JOHNSON: Well and that, that s been our tact to date.
And I m gonna say that, without exception, that every one of those military interventions have had an unintended consequence of at best.
You know, we, we, we go, we re, we always deal with atrocity.
There atrocities going on.
We go in to deal with that atrocity, and at the end of the day, the new dictator, the new despot that we put into place to replace the bad despot, at the end of the day, is just as bad or in many cases worse.
We cut off the head of the hydra, and lo and behold, there are more heads.ROGAN: So how does one stop that?
I mean, have you ever tried to come up with some sort of a solution or look at some sort of a long-term plan that would somehow or another calm the world, or at least, allow the United States to make peace?JOHNSON: One of the reasons that I m seeking to become President of the United States is I think I d do a really good job of presiding over, over all the intelligence that we do have regarding all of this.
I don t want, I don t want to present myself as having the answers, as much as, you know what, give me, give me the intel, let me be part of this discussion, and um, but I m gonna enter in to this discussion, as a real skeptic, um, on what we ve done to this point, and a real skeptic on what appears to be what we re gonna do in the future regarding all this.
Isn t there a more effective way of dealing with this?I wouldn t be seeking this job if um, if I didn t think I could make a difference in it.
And I, I do not want to misstate.
I don t, I don t wanna play cards.
Obama draws lines in the sand.
I m not gonna draw lines in the sand.
If you draw any lines in the sand, you d better be prepared to back up what you said with action.
And that s also been an issue with Obama.ROGAN: What was your take when Obama went on television, and was talking about how we needed to invade Syria?
And Syria was a huge issue, and the American public was up in arms, both the right and the left.
People were like, What are you talking about?
This is craziness.
And then the administration backed off.
I mean, was it, in my opinion, it was one of the first [ ] it was one of the first examples of the United States, sort of collectively, the will of the people, like being openly expressed, that the idea of erring Syria was outrageous.
Nobody wanted to do it.
They didn t make any sense to people, this gas attack.
How was this anymore horrible than a lot of shit that s been going on over the world all the time?
What is, what is it about Syria that all of a sudden we have to go invade Syria?
One more intervention in another country, and the administration backed off?JOHNSON: Great example.
People are fed up with this, and in fact, you know, 22 million people in Syria, and 11 million of them have been displaced.
Don t we, don t we have a share in, share in that consequence?ROGAN: What was the motivation?
What s the motivation for the United States to want to invade there in the first place?JOHNSON: Well, wasn t it the, McCain going over there, beating his chess, and uh, along with Lindsey Graham, and uh, and let s go over there and support the good guys?
Well, the good guys are the minority, and the good guys, at the end of the day, are um Look, this is somehow we re gonna determine the outcomes of, in other countries?
I am, I mean, that s just, it s preposterous.
That uh, as individuals we can do that.The funny thing about Gary Johnson is that he pretends to have a strong grasp on foreign policy as it relates to Syria in the video below, but when asked how the US became involved in the conflict, the best answer he can give is to blame it on John McCain and Lindsey Graham?
How did this guy ever even make it onto the ballot?
And even more frightening, is how he managed to convince 7% of Americans he s a legitimate candidate Watch: