North Carolina s Republican Governor allowed his own sexual hangups to influence his state and it has cost tens of millions of dollars (and counting) in lost business, a PR nightmare, and a justifiably outraged population who think fixing a problem that doesn t exist is a massive waste of time.
In short, he tanked his state and has nothing but headaches to show for it.Rather than, say, fix the screw ups by reversing the anti-LGBT bill that he signed into law and which allows North Carolina businesses to legally discriminate against transgender people, he has instead doubled down and focused on changing the narrative.
It s not going well.On Sunday, Governor Pat McCrory desperately tried to repair his reputation by appearing on Meet the Press.
Instead, he blundered into a series of cringeworthy self owns that make one wonder how he ever got elected in the first place.
In almost slapstick fashion, McCrory managed to step on just about every rake in the yard as he stumbled from weak talking point to weak talking point.Putting on his tough guy voice, McCrory told host Chuck Todd that he wouldn t be bullied by the boycotts, the loss of business, the national condemnation, or his own citizens desires.
He also said he would stand against the Human Rights Campaign (which he misidentified as the Human Relations Commission ) because if there is anything that will help prove you re not a monster, it s proudly attacking an organization that fights for human rights.In an awkward exchange, McCrory said his critics were trying to silence him by not holding a dialogue on the issue, which prompted Todd to point out that Republicans had repeatedly refused to debate the discriminatory bill before forcing it through the state legislature and hurriedly signing it into law.McCrory also acknowledged that he didn t meet with a single trans person before signing the bill, but that he has met a few at some point in his life.
(He also claimed a guy at an all-you-can-eat buffet hugged him.)
The fact that he didn t meet with the people who would be most affected by his legalized discrimination speaks volumes.
Notably, South Dakota s governor had a similar bill on his desk around the same time.
He actually spoke with the trans community and ultimately decided to veto it.
It s almost as if talking to the potential victims can impact the decision.
Go figure.However, the best blunder came near the end: When finally pressed into a corner over the fact that North Carolina has become one of the least gay friendly states in the country under his eye, McCrory did the only sensible thing he blamed Batman.
This is basically a restroom privacy issue, versus equality.
And these things need to be discussed, not threatened by Hollywood or anyone.
You know, Hollywood, with all due respects to the Hollywood, the new Batman and Robin movie is playing in China, which has anti-gay, terrible, terrible human rights violations.
The new Batman and Robin movie!
The argument is complete and utter nonsense.
It s safe to say that even his supporters were probably watching this interview with a mixture of bafflement and terror.
When the greatest advocate for your hate bill is reduced to claiming Batman playing in Chinese theaters justifies his own intolerance, you might as well just hang a sign around your neck that says We lost.
Watch Pat McCrory s very bad day below:Featured image via NBC News screengrab