When the Black Lives Matter movement started gaining nationwide attention, racists across America were outraged.
How dare the African-American community speak out against the institutionalized racism in this country!
One of the most common statements from the hate-filled folks was, Oh sure, they complain about white on black crime, but ignore black on black crime!
And that sentiment is what makes the following story so ironic.On Monday, a group of predominantly black bikers held a rally called Bikes Up, Guns Down.
Hundreds of young men took to the streets on their ATV s and dirt bikes to promote peace in their communities.
Rapper Project Stacks, who is involved in the movement, explained what it was all about in an interview with the Miami New Times in April:Bikes Up, Guns Down is strictly to stop the youth violence.
Violence ain t cool.
We re saying, Let s stick together.
We already deep in population.
Back then, when it was violence, it was probably one person droppin every three months or every six months.
Now you got two or three dropping every weekend.
Or two, three, or four dead bodies every weekend So it s kind of different, and it done raise the stakes.
But I know they like to ride them bikes.
Give em something to do.
I ma buy as many bikes as I can, man.However, when dozens of riders took to the streets on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, the white supremacists went wild on Facebook.
Fox 13 Tampa Bay posted a video of the riders on the streets, some of them were driving like idiots, but for the most part is was just a bunch of bike riders but the white folks were very displeased with this.
That s right, calling out his vile stereotypes makes YOU the racist.The sad thing about this entire incident was the completely predictable way that the racists responded.
The people who participated in the rally were branded thugs even when they were trying to do something positive for their community.
Yet, the same totally inclusive white people have nothing to say when hundreds of caucasian bikers hold rallies and disrupt traffic.
Hell, they didn t even say anything when a bunch of bikers got into a gun fight outside of a restaurant.As a person who is so white I can guide the way in a dark tunnel, I am truly disgusted by the way my community continues to treat other people.
It s not that difficult to be a good human being, I promise.If you are one of those people who still believes that we live in a post-racial America, all you have to do is log on to the internet to be proven wrong.Watch:Featured image video screenshot