Thanks to a conservative group that tried to ruin an organized dance for LGBTQ teens, thousands of dollars were raised so those very teens could have the night of their lives.The Australian Same Sex Gender Diverse Formal is an annual gala hosted by Minus 18 for LGBTQ teenagers, giving them a place to feel safe and at home without the ridicule that might happen at most school dances.
Minus 18 wrote on the event page: Imagine being told by your school that the clothes you feel comfortable wearing to a formal aren t considered normal or don t conform to a dress code.
Imagine not being allowed to take a partner of the same sex, or being too afraid to attend altogether.
It isn t unusual for LGBTQ teens to be bullied or banned when they try to bring a same-sex date or wear attire that doesn t satisfy strict gender norms.
The Formal is a place where teens can be themselves and feel comfortable wearing whatever with whomever, without worrying that others will take issue with it.
Knowing just how important LGBTQ events are, Minus 18 was also crowdfunding for any students who couldn t afford their $40 tickets to the dance.Unfortunately, some people just can t let others be.
The Stop Safe Schools Coalition, a conservative group of bigots that go out of their way to ruin schools and groups that foster safe and inclusive environments for same-sex attracted, intersex, and gender diverse students, staff and families, decided to try and ruin the gala.Using their 700+ Facebook fans, the right-wing group begged people to buy up as many tickets as possible so that LGBTQ teens wouldn t be able to.
The group posted: The more tickets sold to us the more youth we protect.
They are non-refundable unfortunately so if you are then unable to attend you can t get your money back or a ticket sold to someone else.
Little did they know, that while these homophobes thought they were robbing tickets from LGBTQ teens, they were actually buying them FOR the teens!
What The Stop Safe Schools Coalition had actually done was share Minus 18 s crowdfunding campaign which allowed conservatives to unknowingly making donations to send needy LGBTQ students TO the dance.
As one person hilariously pointed out on the Facebook page: You realize that if the conservatives do buy all the tickets, you can just allow registered people on a waiting list in for free?
They re effectively subsidizing tickets for those who can t buy one.
This is one time where the stupidity of conservatives actually paid off.
Thanks to their ignorance, Minus 18 DOUBLED their crowdfunding goal of $15,000 for 500 tickets.
Now, thanks to the hate group, $30,000 has been raised and Minus 18 is using the extra money to find a bigger venue so even more teens can come!To see how amazing and important the Same Sex Gender Diverse Formal is for LGBTQ teens, you can watch footage from last year s event below:Featured image from Minus 18