A Hollywood actor defending the 2nd Amendment is a pretty rare occurrence.
Kudos to Kurt Russell for sticking to your guns (pun intended).
The interview can be heard at link below.Legendary actor Kurt Russell said in a recent interview with Hollywood reporter Jeffery Wells that it s absolutely insane to believe that more gun control will curb terrorist attacks.Discussing America s gun culture and film producer Quentin Tarantino, Russell said he doesn t understand [the] concepts of conversation about the gun culture, after Wells asserted that most Americans fear that mass violence is becoming a day-to-day occurrence.When Wells went on to say that guns are a metaphor that disenfranchised white guys need, Russell let loose.
If you think gun control is going to change the terrorists point of view, I think you re, like, out of your mind, he began.
I think anybody [who says that] is.
I think it s absolutely insane.
Dude, you re about to find out what I m gonna do, and that s gonna worry you a lot more, the actor continued.
And that s what we need.
That will change the concept of gun culture, as you call it, to something [like] reality.
Which is, if I m a hockey team and I ve got some guy bearing down on me as a goal tender, I m not concerned about what he s gonna do I m gonna make him concerned about what I m gonna do to stop him.
That s when things change.
Arguing back, Wells invoked the no-fly list, saying that the people on the list are there for a good reason, but that they can allegedly still get [a] hold of a gun pretty easily.
They can also make a bomb pretty easily.
So what?
Russell retorted.
They can also get knives and stab you.
[What are you] gonna do about that?
They can also get cars and run you over.
[What are you] gonna do about that?
When Wells argued back that the San Bernardino terrorists didn t use cars, Russell fought back, saying that previous terrorists have used cars to murder people.
But they ve killed others that way, haven t they?
he said.
Yeah, yeah.
Whaddaya gonna do?
Outlaw everything?
That isn t the answer.
The rest of the interview: Wells: Just put some controls Russell: Put some controls?
What, so the people, so the people who want to defend themselves can t?Wells: No, not so you can t, just so the idiots can t get hold of them [so easily], that s all.Russell: You really believe they re not going to?
Are you serious about that?
What good will that ?
Oh my God.
You and I just disagree.
Via: The BlazeClick HERE to listen to the interview