The world was recently teased that there are worse tapes of Donald Trump saying vile things out there then grab her by the pussy.
That teaser came from Bill Pruitt.
Pritt was the producer of The Apprentice, a reality show starring Trump that was for millions of Americans their first encounter with the now Republican presidential nominee.Pruitt sent out a tweet saying, I assure you: when it comes to the #trumptapes there are far worse.
As a producer on seasons 1 & 2 of #theapprentice I assure you: when it comes to the #trumptapes there are far worse.
#justthebegininng Bill Pruitt (@billpruitt) October 8, 2016Now it appears that at least one of those tapes features Trump saying the N-word.
Whether one consider that worse or not would depend entirely on whether one despises Trump because he is a racist or whether they despise him because he is a violent misogynist.
I prefer to loathe his existence for both equally.
For those of you just itching to hear Trump to tear his past once again destroy his chances of winning the election, there s a problem.
Apparently, the tapes are being held behind a legal wall.
Mark Burnett is a producer on The Apprentice.
He has threatened any leakers with the show that he will sue anyone who is caught revealing the tapes.
According to Emmy-award winning producer Chris Nee, it ll cost anyone who leaks the tapes $5 million dollars.
@mcuban the price is 5 million to cover the penalty fee.
And we all get to hear him use the N word from what I hear https://t.co/IsmJvHHL1K Chris Nee (@chrisdocnee) October 9, 2016 the price is 5 million to cover the penalty fee.
And we all get to hear him use the N word from what I hear Apparently, there is some hope out there that we may get to hear those tapes anyway.
David Brock, a Clinton backer has pledged to pay the penalty fees of anyone who can release those tapes, and it s like others would step forward as well.
So please, if anyone has damning tapes of Trump from his time on the show, please release them.Featured image from Scott Olson/Getty Images