At the beginning of the year, a new law went into effect in Texas authorizing responsible gun owners to carry their weapons around pretty much anywhere as long as they have gone through the incredibly easy process of obtaining a concealed carry permit.
As the NRA tells us constantly these individuals, these good guys with guns, are ready to leap into action at the first sign of danger to protect the innocent from bad guys with guns.
Unfortunately, the problem is that the good guys often can become bad guys the moment they get a little bit angry something we saw unfold on Friday and Saturday in Uvalde, Texas.
Four people are dead after a 19-hour standoff with police at a trailer park.
It s a mess in there right now, a Uvalde County Sheriff s Office deputy told News 4 San Antonio.Details are scarce, but police have announced that no officers were hurt in the battle with an unannounced number of gunmen and/or women.
Uvalde County Sheriff s had responded to reports of shots fired at the trailer park.
After police arrived, the suspects opened fire on responding officers none of whom were hurt, fortunately.
People in the trailer park and in neighboring homes were not permitted into the area while the blood battle between good guys with guns and police.Unfortunately, the mass proliferation of guns in the United States creates a situation where no one is ever truly safe not in their homes, not in church, not walking down the street, or anywhere else.
The lie that a good guy with a gun will save the day is a gross misrepresentation of reality.
In fact, they re just as likely to score a headshot on the person they are saving as to actually save someone.While many argue that it s their right to carry their self-confidence on their hips, the fact is that keeping a gun around actually makes you less safe than having no gun at all and then, of course, there s the chance that any responsible gun owner could snap at any time and start shooting.
While it s true that we don t know what sparked this shootout, we can safely assume that the people who turned their guns on police surely thought of themselves as the good guys.
Featured image via Daily Mail