On Tuesday night, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo attended a NYC fundraiser on his 59th birthday, and took the time to comment on the election s disastrous outcome.In speaking to his audience, Cuomo took a somber tone and spoke to Democrats specifically on what we should be taking away from President-elect Donald Trump s win.
Cuomo said: There is a lesson in what happened in the election, and I believe when you get knocked on your tuchus, you should at least learn the lesson of what happened.I don t believe that Trump won.
I believe that we lost that election.
Noting that the Democratic Party had some soul searching over the next few years in order to get back on track, Cuomo suggested that the loss was not so much an open embrace of Trump as it was a disconnection in messaging from the Left.
I think what it said to the Democrats is there is a middle class that we have not been attentive to and it s a middle class that s been suffering for a long time.
Cuomo advised that New York and its citizens cannot stay silent when Trump s tide of negativity is encouraging others to discriminate and act out of fear and hate.
Cuomo said: If you want to make America strong again then remember what made America strong in the first place.
It s tolerance.
It s brotherhood.
It s acceptance.
It s community.
That is the way forward.
Cuomo also said he was concerned about the intolerance and bigotry that was now resonating all across this country, stating that there have since been many racial incidents in New York since Trump s election.
Specifically, Cuomo spoke about an incident that happened just this week, in which a Muslim MTA worker had been attacked.
These comments resonate with something Cuomo said about Trump a year ago, when Cuomo said Trump was fanning the flames of hate with his Islamophobic rhetoric.Cuomo, who has been rumored to be a 2020 contender, has been a solid voice in standing up to Trump s rhetoric and vowed to protect minorities in New York after Trump won the election.Featured image via Spencer Platt and Tasos Katopodis / Getty Images