The CIA, the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence are being sued for records containing information regarding Russia s tampering with the U.S. presidential election.On Monday, Journalist Jason Leopold and Ryan Shapiro, a Ph.D. candidate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.
The suit alleges that the intelligence agencies failed to comply with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) by refusing to turn over requested documents.According to The Hill:On Dec. 14, Leopold and Shapiro asked the intelligence agencies for copies of communications to or from the Electoral College and any records that mention or refer to a requests Electoral College members made for information and briefings on the investigations into ties between Trump, his campaign or his associates.
The request included mentions of Russian government interference in the election.Earlier this month, the CIA revealed that their assessment of Russia s election meddling had found that not only had they interfered with the U.S. presidential election, but they had done so with the express purpose of helping Donald Trump win.
The FBI later announced that they agreed with the CIA s findings.In the suit, Leopold and Shapiro are asking the court to compel the intelligence agencies to turn over the pertinent records as mandated by the FOIA.
This is not Leopold s first rodeo when it comes to these kinds of cases.
Most notably, he was part of the lawsuit that got the State Department to release Hillary Clinton s emails.Trump has dismissed the idea that Russia meddled with the election as ridiculous and has claimed that Democrats are just making it up as an excuse for his massive win.
(Quick reminder, he lost the popular vote by almost 3 million votes and even his electoral college win isn t all that freaking massive in reality.
)Numerous lawmakers, from both the left and right, are calling for an official investigation into Russia s unprecedented interference in our election.Featured image via David Burnett/Newsmakers/Getty Images