Can you imagine being POTUS and having this threat every day while you re in the WhiteHouse?
The threats are there but this type of threat is frightening because this man is apparently mentally ill. We were unable to find any pictures of this man.
He made vile and graphic threats to President Trump and was charged:A truck driver has been charged in federal court with threatening to assassinate President Donald Trump in several phone calls to Secret Service field offices.Special Agent Matthew Lariviere wrote in a criminal complaint unsealed Tuesday that James Anthony Jackson repeatedly called the Secret Service field office in Chicago on Oct. 12-13 and made more phone calls to the field office in Detroit on Oct. 18 threatening to blow Trump s brains out.
Better watch Donald Trump ass, ya bitch, Jackson said, according to court records.
Ya ll think someone playing with yo dumbasses, I am going to blow white brains out his (expletive) head.
It appeared Jackson was masking his real number, according to the agent.Jackson called from a phone with a 616 area code number.The number was registered to James Jackson Profit Group LLC in Grand Rapids, according to the agent.
The company, which does not appear in state business records, is linked to an outreach center in Grand Rapids.Phone records also showed Jackson frequently called a woman in the 517 area code.
The woman told investigators she had met a man online named Jamie who had harassed and threatened her from the same Grand Rapids-area phone number used by Jackson.Jamie threatened to cut off her head and parade it in front of the White House for Trump, according to the court filing.On Friday, investigators interviewed Jackson s uncle.Jackson had cursed and threatened relatives, the uncle said.Agents played a recording of one of the Trump threats for Jackson s sister and she confirmed the voice belonged to Jackson, according to the complaint.The News reports Jackson was born in 1984 but a hometown wasn t available and the U.S. Attorney s Office refused to discuss the case.Via Detroit NewsVia: WNEM