Contrary to what the media would like us to believe, Obama has not remained silent when it comes to policy that President Trump put in place by executive order.
Neither he nor his Democratic henchmen remained silent when President Trump desperately tried to convince Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare, or when he had the opportunity to attack him over his handling of the Charlottesville controversy.
The media celebrated Obama s post-Charlotseville tweet designed to make our former President look like he was in favor of uniting the nation (which we all know is a bald-faced lie), while falsely giving the impression that President Trump was choosing sides.Before the media gets into a full-blown tizzy about Obama using social media to bash our current president over DACA, they might consider that most of America aren t stupid enough to believe that Valerie Jarrett didn t move into Barack Obama s DC home because he needed a friend to play checkers with.
He may not be making public statements to voice his opposition against our current president, but one thing we do know is that he and Valerie Jarrett aren t sitting on their hands, while President Trump unwinds everything they worked so hard to make happen, including DACA.Hotair You know it s killing this guy not to be on camera every day scolding Trump in his usual that s not who we are terms but that would be a strategic disaster so obvious that silence is really the only option.
A Trump vs. Obama fight over almost any issue would unify most of the right behind the president and O knows it; the most brutal thing he can do to Trump is to deny him that our-guy-versus-their-guy dynamic.
I don t think it s crazy to believe that Trump s job approval would be five to 10 points higher if Obama had spent the last seven months sniping at him regularly.
By withholding his criticism, he s made it possible for soft Republicans and right-leaning independents to criticize POTUS without fear of being accused that they re carrying O s water.Two days before President Trump s inauguration, Obama warned him that he would come out against him if Trump rescinded his unconstitutional DACA.Why attack Trump now?
I think there s more to it than DACA just being near and dear to Obama s heart.
He knows that congressional Republicans are going to be jammed up here to an unusual degree.
Immigration is a fraught issue for the GOP under the best of circumstances but DREAMers are an especially hard case due to their having come here as children.
They re the one class of illegals about whom even Trump speaks warmly.
In fact, the president s going to end DACA not because he wants to but because Republican AGs are squeezing him to do so, replete with the threat of a court battle; even then, Trump is still so reluctant to pull the plug that he s willing to hold off for another six months.
The entire GOP (apart from Steve King) will spend those six months telling every voter who listens that they re open to legalizing DREAMers.
All they ask in return is some face-saving security measures so that they can semi-plausibly argue to their base that they didn t roll over completely on amnesty.Having Obama wade in publicly on the side of DREAMers will complicate all of that.
With O banging the drum for amnesty, Republican voters who are lukewarm on the idea in the first place will start to turn frosty.
Populists will have a field day attacking Ryan and McConnell (and Trump?)
for essentially doing Obama s bidding by negotiating for a DREAM bill.
Some congressional Republicans might start to get cold feet.
The more hostile Trump and the congressional GOP become towards a DREAM deal as part of a backlash towards Obama, the more ammo Schumer will have to say that Republicans are being cruel to poor illegal children whose only mistake was trusting the federal government.
The whole GOP we like DREAMers too!
messaging effort will be scrambled.
Either negotiations will end up collapsing in Congress, with Dems using the DREAM failure against Republicans next fall, or Trump, Ryan, and McConnell will have to swallow hard and approve an amnesty cheered on by Barack farking Obama, which is about the RINO-iest move a modern Republican is capable of making.
Either the GOP base ends up angry at the White House or everyone else does.
Obama speaking out is tinder for the match Trump is about to strike.Let s hope President Trump will be able to locate and tweet this pesky little video of candidate Obama telling his constituents how he disagrees with law breaking illegal aliens living and working in America: