Why didn t the FBI look at Huma s shared computer the first time around?
Whether the FBI demanded Clinton s aides turn over personal devices and any they shared with their partners when it launched the investigation in July 2015 is not clear.
Detectives are investigating emails on a computer shared by Clinton s former Chief of Staff, Huma Abedin, and her husband Anthony Weiner.In a deposition in June, Abedin said she conducted the majority of her work at her computer and Blackberry.
She said she turned over two laptops, a Blackberry and some files she found in her apartment to her attorneys when requested as part of a lawsuit by the conservative watchdog Judicial Watch.The FBI later said in its 47-page report that Abedin and others used their private server email accounts when traveling.
It previously mentioned the use of cell phones, Blackberrys and iPads but there is no mention of personal computers or laptops.
Some of the devices, including 13 phones, were never turned over because the FBI could not locate them.John Podesta, Clinton s campaign chairman, said on Saturday Abedin had the campaign s full support.
Huma completely and voluntarily complied with and cooperated with the investigation.
She sat for a hours long interview.
She turned over and went through with her lawyers all of the emails that might possibly be relevant and turned them over to the state department and investigators.
There s absolutely nothing she s done that we think calls into question anything that she s done.
The reopening of the investigation was prompted by detectives probing Anthony Weiner s explicit exchanges with a 15-year-old girl, The New York Times reported.
They seized the laptop for the purposes of their separate investigation.
What will be determined is if classified information obtained by Abedin could have been accessed on the computer.
Disclosing classified information to anyone who does not have a high enough security clearance to view it is a crime punishable by up to 10 years in jail.JOHN PODESTA MIGHT WANT TO READ THIS: Abedin s I did not recall claim was believed by Comey and he didn t look furtherSkeptical agents showed Abedin three separate email exchanges she had with an IT staffer regarding the operation of the private Clinton server during Clinton s tenure at State.
Abedin claimed she did not recall the email exchanges.So if you believe Abedin, she didn t know the private clintonemail.com server that hosted her huma@clintonemail.com account even existed until she heard about it in the news.
Comey was a believer; he didn t even bother to call her back for further questioning.
Case closed.But Abedin s role in this caper begs for fresh scrutiny.
Making false statements to a federal agent is a felony.
So is mishandling classified information.By forwarding classified emails to her personal email account and printing them out at home, Abedin appears to have violated a Classified Information NonDisclosure Agreement she signed at the State Department on Jan. 30, 2009, in which she agreed to keep all classified material under the control of the US government.Read more: Daily MailRead more:: NYP