We are devout Catholics, but my daughter goes to a Lutheran College.
She messaged me the other day to tell me a group students were parked outside her school s cafeteria with a display and literature defending Planned Parenthood.
Needless to say, we were both disappointed by the decision of the college to allow this group of activists to promote abortion in a Christian based college.
When our Christian churches stop defending the sanctity of life, we are truly doomed as a society.
A Catholic school in Kingston, Ontario, hosted an anti-Catholic abortion activist earlier this week for a Healthy Relationships/Sexuality Retreat, in which she told senior students that it is acceptable for a girl to send a naked photo of herself to a boyfriend as long as there is consent.
The presentation was mandatory for all grade 10 students, and one father says the school gave them no details about the event in advance.Activist Julie Lalonde, 30, not only sits on the board of Canada s leading abortion lobby organization, the Abortion Rights Coalition of Canada, but in 2012 she helped found the anti-Catholic group The Radical Handmaids with the goal of combatting a pro-life motion introduced in the House of Commons at that time.
During demonstrations, the activists dress in mockery of Catholic nuns, wearing the cornette, the trademark butterfly headpiece formerly worn by St. Vincent de Paul s Daughters of Charity in Montreal.A Catholic father, whose daughter attended Lalonde s presentation at Regiopolis-Notre Dame Catholic High School in Kingston on Monday, was shocked that what he called a radical anti-Catholic feminist would be given a platform at a Catholic school.
I feel sick about the whole thing, that this is the message our children are receiving at a Catholic high school.
It s a message that says there is no right or wrong, there s no moral standards, Colin MacDougall told LifeSiteNews.MacDougall said that he would have liked his daughter to hear a message that would have simply discouraged people from sending any kind of explicit message or photos.
How about the message, Don t send them in the first place, he said.
You feel just kind of sick that you send your kids to a Catholic school expecting that they would get some flavor of the Catholic message, at the very least, but instead, it goes the other way, he added.In her presentation, Lalonde focuses on the notion of consent, telling students that sending a naked photo is not a problem as long as the sender gives full consent.
We re not talking about whether or not that girl should be taking the picture in the first place.
For us, what s important is not necessarily whether or not I ve consented to having my photo taken, but the idea of why is it funny [for my boyfriend] to send it to [his] entire hockey team.
Lalonde stresses that there is a huge difference between me and my partners sending pictures to each other, and me sending a picture because I m afraid that if I don t, you re not going to date me anymore.
She makes the argument that it s acceptable for a consenting girl to send a naked photo of herself to her boyfriend, but where she draws the line is when that boy then turns around and sends the photo to other people without the girl s consent.A tweet sent out by Lalonde:Examples of cool consent programming at @sheridancollege #daretocare pic.twitter.com/J28EfozcGQ Julie S. Lalonde (@JulieSLalonde) October 16, 2015 What we want to talk about is this idea that photos going viral doesn t happen on its own.
Someone has to initiate that process.
Someone has to decide if I m going to send this on to someone else, that person sends it onto someone else And that s a problem.
That s the biggest problem, she said.Via: LifeSite News