World-renowned political theorist and activist Noam Chomsky has made his feelings about Donald Trump very publicly known when he openly called Trump a clown a few months ago and his message to America is now more urgent than ever.In a piece posted on AlterNet, Chomsky speaks directly to progressives in swing states that aren t fond of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton or Trump.
Chomsky himself isn t completely pro-Hillary he is actually quite critical of her on certain things like foreign policy but he makes an eight-point argument that Trump is such a danger to this country, progressives would be smart to vote for the lesser evil.
In fact, Chomsky flat-out says that voting for Clinton could very well save the planet because Trump is such a major threat to not only Americans, but the entire world.
In his piece, Chomsky points out that on the subject of climate change alone, Trump is deadly.
He said: One of these candidates, Trump, denies the existence of global warming, calls for increasing use of fossil fuels, dismantling of environmental regulations and refuses assistance to India and other developing nations as called for in the Paris agreement, the combination of which could, in four years, take us to a catastrophic tipping point.
And Chomsky hadn t even addressed the fact that Trump continuously insults other countries, doesn t have an ounce of empathy in his bones, and is not emotionally stable enough to be trusted with the codes to nuclear weapons.
However, Chomsky s major take-away here is that in this election, Americans shouldn t see voting as a moral act at this point, we need to do whatever we can to prevent a devastating outcome: Trump in the White House.
Chomsky wrote: Voting should not be viewed as a form of personal self-expression or moral judgement directed in retaliation towards major party candidates who fail to reflect our values, or of a corrupt system designed to limit choices to those acceptable to corporate elites.
Chomsky reached out to progressives in particular when he said: The left should also recognize that, should Trump win based on its failure to support Clinton, it will repeatedly face the accusation (based in fact), that it lacks concern for those sure to be most victimized by a Trump administration.
You can read Chomsky s entire piece here.
This of course, is hardly the first time Chomsky has urged Americans to come to their senses about Trump.
You can watch the famed linguist talk about Trump at length in the video below:Featured image via William B. Plowman and Scott Eisen / Getty Images