Yesterday, President Trump took to Twitter to honor the 62-year anniversary of civil rights icon, Rosa Parks.
President Trump tweeted, 62 years ago this week, a brave seamstress in Montgomery, Alabama uttered one word that changed history His message was accompanied by a beautiful video narrated by the President that featured the courageous act of defiance against a bigoted bus driver who attempted to make her sit at the back of the bus, simply because she was black.
President Trump s video is a beautiful tribute to a woman who, much like Donald Trump, was a fighter.
She wasn t looking for someone else to fight for her, she wasn t organizing a mob to fight back against injustice, she stood alone, she fought back, and because of her, America won.
(Sound familiar?
)62 years ago this week, a brave seamstress in Montgomery, Alabama uttered one word that changed history pic.twitter.com/eOvCBcMIKX Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 2, 2017Five years ago, President Obama also honored the legacy of Rosa Parks.
Obama, however, took a much different approach.
Instead of focusing on Rosa Parks, and her contribution to the civil rights movement, Barack Obama posted a narcissistic photo of himself sitting on the bus, that s parked at the Henry Ford Museum, in Dearborn, MI.
Apparently, Barack Obama felt that he deserved the spotlight on the 57th and again on the 58th anniversary of Rosa Parks brave act of defiance.Here s how the former President Barack Obama honored Rosa Parks on her 57th anniversary:Today is the 57th Anniversary of the day Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat.
Pic: President Obama on Rosa Parks bus pic.twitter.com/cFaKOYDt White House Archived (@ObamaWhiteHouse) December 1, 2012Here s how President Barack Obama honored Rosa Parks again, on her 58th anniversary:Michelle was so impressed by her husband s arrogance, that she too, tweeted a picture of her husband to honor the life of Rosa Parks:For the record, there are plenty of photos of Rosa Parks that were available for the President and First Lady to use in their tweets.But somehow, the Obama s always seemed to take a moment that should belong to someone else, and make it about them.It s not the first time Barack Obama honored himself instead of the person he claimed to be honoring.
We ve posted several images of Barack Obama honoring himself instead of the activist, hero or legend he was supposed to honoring.Here are just a few examples:Although he never mentions him by name or even bothers to circle him in this photo, where Barack Obama is clearly the center of attention, this tweet was supposed to be honoring the late golf icon, Arnold Palmer:Here's to The King who was as extraordinary on the links as he was generous to others.
Thanks for the memories, Arnold.
pic.twitter.com/UlyfpIBOL2 President Obama (@POTUS44) September 26, 2016In this tweet, Barack Obama says, He shook up the world, and the world s a better place for it.
Fortunately, he added Rest in Peace , otherwise, his social media followers would have no reason to believe that this tweet was supposed to be a tribute to the deceased boxing legend, Muhammad Ali, as once again, Obama appears to be the focus of the image with a photo of Ali in the background.He shook up the world, and the world's better for it.
Rest in peace, Champ.
pic.twitter.com/z1yM3sSLH3 President Obama (@POTUS44) June 4, 2016The former President honored Nelson Mandela by posting a picture of himself in the jail cell where Mandela was imprisoned:Compassion, understanding, and reconciliation on #MandelaDay, we are reminded of the promise for a better world.
pic.twitter.com/vOpRlM4gwf White House Archived (@ObamaWhiteHouse) July 18, 2016And finally, on Pearl Harbor Day in Barack Obama honored the dead, by posting a picture of himself on Facebook walking down the stairs next to the Pearl Harbor Memorial.