Donald Trump just heard that Hillary Clinton won t face charges from the FBI and he went ballistic.Conservatives have been frothing at the mouth over the prospect of Hillary Clinton being arrested and jailed over whatever imaginary crimes they believe she has committed.
But after meeting personally with the FBI about her so-called email scandal, it is now expected that the investigation will be dropped and no charges will be filed.This comes on the heels of the Republican report on Benghazi that cleared Clinton of any wrongdoing after four years and $7 million spent trying to find anything to pin on the former Secretary of State.Ever since it became clear that Hillary would be his opponent, Trump has referred to Clinton as Crooked Hillary, and has used both Benghazi and the email probe as the centerpieces of his attacks against her.
But now that the FBI and House Republicans have found no evidence against her, Trump has lost his two favorite attacks and he had a complete meltdown about it on Twitter on Saturday.
It is impossible for the FBI not to recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton, the Republican nominee wrote.
What she did was wrong!
What Bill did was stupid!
It is impossible for the FBI not to recommend criminal charges against Hillary Clinton.
What she did was wrong!
What Bill did was stupid!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 2, 2016What Trump is referring to is Bill Clinton s brief exchange with Attorney General Loretta Lynch last week.
The two were coincidentally at the Phoenix airport at the same time, so Clinton stopped by to see her since the two have known each other for a long time going back to when he appointed her as a U.S. Attorney in 1999.
According to Lynch, while it may not have been wise for the two to chat in private, the conversation was innocent and had nothing to do with the investigation.
They spoke about golf and grandchildren, Lynch said.
And frankly, Lynch should be given the benefit of the doubt.But you can t tell that to Trump, who also declared on Saturday night that the system is rigged because the FBI didn t charge Clinton like he wanted them to do.
It was just announced-by sources-that no charges will be brought against Crooked Hillary Clinton.
Like I said, the system is totally rigged!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 2, 2016Basically, Donald Trump is going to have a hard time using Benghazi or the email probe against Clinton in a general election in which most people are not paranoid conservatives who see conspiracy theories everywhere they go.
It will work on conservative crowds that are easy to work into a frenzy because they already hate Clinton with a murderous passion, but the Republican Benghazi report that exonerates her combined with the FBI declining to charge Clinton over emails basically gives the American people four months to forget about it because they won t care in a couple days if they ever really cared at all since this whole circus was manufactured by Republicans anyway in an effort to pin some sort of scandal on her.
But just like Republicans failed to pin manufactured scandals on President Obama, Republicans have failed once again because Hillary Clinton did nothing wrong.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images