Donald Trump s Muslim ban is proving to be a lot more difficult and a lot less constitutional than his followers hope.
While two courts in a row have struck Trump down, even Mitch McConnell is seeing the writing on the wall.
He said on Sunday that the Senate will not defend Trump s questionably constitutional Muslim ban.On CNN s State of the Union, McConnell was asked about a couple of Trump s latest, including Trump s defense of Russian President Vladimir Putin s record of assassinating his political enemies, to which Trump essentially shrugged his shoulders and said that the United States does it too.
McConnell called Putin a thug and then, without a shred of irony in his voice, complained that Putin wasn t legitimately elected.The subject then turned to Trump s claim that he only lost the popular vote because more than 3 million undocumented people voted.
While McConnell didn t exactly deny this baseless claim, he did say that election fraud wasn t significant enough to have swayed the election and that any investigations should be left up to the state.Then it turned to Trump s latest priority, which is his Muslim ban.
While Trump hasn t yet lashed out at the second court to put a halt to his ban, Trump did have a Twitter meltdown toward the first, who is a conservative George Bush Sr. appointee:The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017Because the ban was lifted by a judge, many very bad and dangerous people may be pouring into our country.
A terrible decision Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017The judge opens up our country to potential terrorists and others that do not have our best interests at heart.
Bad people are very happy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 5, 2017CNN s Jake Tapper asked McConnell if Congress would be willing to make the ban law, which would make the legality at least a bit less questionable.
McConnell wanted nothing to do with it.
I don t know that that s necessary, McConnell told CNN s Jake Tapper on State of the Union Sunday.
I mean, the courts are going to decide whether the executive order the President issued is valid or not, and we all follow court orders.
Here s the video in its entirety:McConnell is sending a clear message to Donald Trump and it s one he won t like.
Even in our hyper partisan Congress, McConnell is not willing to step out on a political limb just because Trump is a Republican.
This isn t exactly bravery on McConnell s part, but it does show that perhaps impeachment might not be far behind.
McConnell would much rather work with a President Mike Pence.Featured image via video screen capture.