The battle between Republican presidential hopefuls Ted Cruz and Donald Trump continues to intensify, as both candidates keep fanning the flames by directing insults at each other.On Tuesday, Cruz s emotions seemed to get the better of him as he snapped on a reporter for simply asking him if he would be supporting his front runner rival if he became the GOP nominee.
This public meltdown came just a few days after Meet the Press host Chuck Todd had tried to ask Cruz if he would keep his pledge to support the eventual Republican nominee regardless of who it was, and Cruz repeatedly dodged the question.Cruz had been busy insulting the business mogul at a press conference in Evansville, Indiana when NBC News correspondent Hallie Jackson tried to get a straight answer from the Texas senator on whether or not he would back Trump, hoping to get more of an answer than Todd was able to.
Jackson asked: These are some of the strongest words you ve used against Donald Trump yet.
You know I ve been with you, I ve heard you talk about him.
Today feels different for you.
So, I m going to ask you a question and you re going to say that I sound like a broken record While it was clear that Cruz didn t want to answer the question, his rude response was shocking.
Jackson was abruptly cut off by Cruz, who aggressively said, You sound like a broken record.
Someone else have a question?
Jackson tried to object and get a straight answer from the candidate.
She pressed, Why not say once and for all?
Cruz continued to give Jackson a nasty attitude and angrily replied, You ve asked one already, Hallie.
You ve asked already.
Frustrated, Jackson continued to badger Cruz to answer her: Will you support him as the nominee?
I don t understand why you won t answer the question, Senator.
If you think he s a liar If you say he s a pathological liar, and you say that you can t Cruz continued to scold Jackson and ignore her request, making the situation tense and uncomfortable.
You can watch Cruz completely disrespect and ignore Jackson below:It looks as though Cruz doesn t want to accept the harsh reality that he might lose the Republican nominee to Trump.
Anything that reminds Cruz that he s in second place will easily send him into a full-blown temper tantrum.Featured image via Eduardo Munoz Alvarez / Getty Images