Reality show star turned president-elect Donald Trump earned himself Lie of the Year by PolitiFact and he s broken almost every campaign promise before being sworn in.
The swamp is being filled with terrifying creatures, Mexico is not paying for the wall, Hillary Clinton won t be locked up and Obamacare won t be fully repealed.
And that s just the short list.
Still yet, incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus claims that every single thing Trump has done has been factual and he further said he is supported by 80 percent of Americans.
By the way, Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by 2.86 million.Trump responded on Twitter Saturday to China s seizure of a U.S. naval drone by tweeting, [W]e don t want the drone they stole back.- let them keep it!
Fox News host Chris Wallace called Priebus out over Trump s tweet.
To defend Trump, Priebus said, I don t think it s all that provocative.
You mean the One China policy is up for grabs?
Wallace asked.
We re not suggesting we re revisiting One China policy right now, Priebus said with a straight face.
And he s not president right now and he s respectful to the current president.
The Chinese ripped a drone out of the water, Priebus continued.
President-elect said this is an unprecedented act, totally inappropriate.
He didn t quite use those words, but that s essentially what he said in a tweet.
Actually, Trump said it was unpresidented and he was mocked for that.Priebus said the U.S. military should not want that drone back after it was handled by the Chinese government.
I think every single thing he s done has been factual and has been in line with where 80 percent of the American people are, Priebus said.Watch:Reince, lookie here:With Trump, consistency is king.
pic.twitter.com/4RC6nSrA3L Kaivan Shroff (@KaivanShroff) December 18, 2016Last Sunday, Trump said in an interview on Fox News Sunday: I fully understand the One China policy, but I don t know why we have to be bound by a One China policy unless we make a deal with China having to do with other things, including trade.
Trump changes his mind like the wind.
It just depends on what he wants to distract us from.
And Priebus just lied about Trump s lies.Image via screen capture