For the first time since 1988, Latinos will be totally shut out from having any role in an administration.Despite the fact that Latinos make up 17 percent of the population in the United States, Trump apparently does not want them anywhere near him or his presidency, which makes it clear that he intends to treat them like second-class citizens over the next four years.
We re extremely worried.
This is anti-democratic, National Hispanic Leadership Agenda chairman Hector Sanchez told the Dallas Morning News after Trump chose a middle-aged white guy to be Secretary of Agriculture, the last cabinet position to be filled.
Trump has not only been the most anti-Latino, anti-immigrant president in the history of the nation; by not including Latinos in the Cabinet he is just showing how he is planning to govern, Sanchez continued.Indeed, the alarming absence of Latinos in Trump s cabinet caught the notice of the media, who promptly asked Trump s official mouthpiece, Sean Spicer, about it.His response is flat-out offensive.
I think that when you look at the totality at his administration the people that he s talked to, the people that he s met with, the people that he s appointing you see a president who s committed to uniting this country, who s bringing the best and brightest together.
Look at the cabinet Elaine Chao, Dr. Ben Carson, Nikki Haley, the first Indian-American.
Not only is Spicer suggesting that Latinos are not the best and brightest, he s suggesting that Ben Carson is actually one of the best and brightest.
Let s not forget that Carson thinks the ancient pyramids were built to be grain silos, something that is totally wrong and has been mocked by archaeologists.Spicer then doubled down, claiming that Americans should focus on whether Trump is hiring the best people for the jobs, and claimed that Trump s cabinet is diverse.
Here s the video via YouTube.Again, Latinos are the fastest growing demographic in this country.
There should be at least one in an administration that is supposed to represent all of America.
Trump and his team can t honestly say that they couldn t find a person of Hispanic descent who is qualified to work in any cabinet position.
But 17 percent of our nation s population will be alienated by Trump.Trump s claim that his cabinet is ideologically diverse and filled with the best and brightest is also bullshit.
Not only did Trump only pick conservatives to fill his cabinet, all but two are men and all but two are white.
That s not even close to being diverse.
Furthermore, as The Atlantic points out, the only nominee who has experience running a federal agency is Elaine Chao.
Plus, most of his cabinet picks want to destroy the departments they have been selected to lead.In no way are these the best and brightest.
And you can be damn sure that Latinos will punish Trump and Republicans for it in 2018 and 2020 when the next midterm and presidential elections give the American people a chance to fix the mistake made in 2016.Featured Image via Twitter