After the bombshell news that Trump gave highly classified information to Russian, the White House is scrambling to defend his conduct, no matter how reckless.
National security adviser H.R.
McMaster argued to the press on Tuesday that the President didn t jeopardize U.S. intelligence by giving out highly sensitive intel to Russian Officials, and added that Trump had no idea where the intel came from.McMaster stated The President in no way undermined sourced or methods in the course of this conversation, saying that anyone could get their hands on this information in open-source reporting.
The real kicker is that McMaster argued that it was impossible for Trump to have endangered national security due to the fact that he did not even know what he was discussing.
The President wasn t even aware of where this information came from, he said.
He wasn t briefed on the source.
There was no denying that Trump discussed top secret information to Moscow s U.S. ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, and Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov.
But McMaster attacked those who leaked the contents of the conversation to the media, insisting that is the story that people should be paying attention to.
I think the real issue and what I would like to see debated more is that our national security has been put at risk by those violating confidentiality, he said, I think national security is put at risk by this leak and leaks like this.
McMaster noted that the administration would be investigating the source of leaks to reporters, but did not respond to the question of who would be conducting the investigation.Reports on Monday from the Washington Post said the discussion was about Islamic State information, which came from a U.S. ally with the stipulation that it would not be shared with other governments.Officials from the Democratic and Republican party are both outraged by this revelation and its potential to put intelligence sources and partners at risk.See McMaster s full statement here:Feature image via video screengrab