If you want to watch Trump s campaign manager crash and burn, this is the interview you ll want to see.Kellyanne Conway may be a new name and face to most Americans, but she has been peddling lies on behalf of Republican candidates for years now.
She also been getting called out for it, too.In 2012, Conway attempted to defend Todd Akin of legitimate rape infamy on CNN during an interview with Anderson Cooper.During the interview when it came time for Conway to explain Akin s outrageous blunder, she tried to change the subject by spouting off a big abortion lie that sex-selective abortions are rampant in this country.
You ve got all these little baby girls being killed just because they re girls in this country, she said before citing Guttmacher Institute as her source.A shocked Cooper informed Conway that there s really no evidence that sex-selective abortions are occurring in the United States.
But statistically, there s not really much evidence that that is actually occurring in the United States.
Amongst some immigrant groups in small numbers it may be occurring but in no statistical measure is it significant.
Conway insisted that she is correct and told Cooper to check her source.Here s the video of Conway s lie via YouTube.And that s exactly what Cooper did during the commercial break and when the show resumed he took a moment to thoroughly humiliate Conway with the facts.
Before the break, Kellyanne, you mentioned the Guttmacher Institute information on sex-selective abortion in the United States.
Here s what they actually say in a May 30 press release titled Sex Selective Abortion Bans: A Disingenuous New Strategy to Limit Women s Access to Abortion.
The study acknowledges the practice does go on overseas, as we mentioned, and perhaps in certain Asian-American communities in the United States in small numbers, Copper continued.
But, quote, In the United States, meanwhile, there is limited data indicating that sex-selective abortion may be occurring in some Asian communities.
Although the U.S. sex ratio at 1.05 males for every female is squarely within biologically normal parameters.
So I just wanted to put that out there.
Here s the video of Cooper smacking Conway down via CNN.In short, Kellyanne Conway got totally owned on the air for lying about abortion statistics.Clearly, when Donald Trump was searching for a new campaign manager he was looking for someone is lies and is allergic to facts like himself.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images