Ahead of tomorrow night s debates, where Hillary will have an abundance of facts, figures, experience and knowledge at her disposal while Trump will only have misogynistic insults and outright lies at his, a Fox host is complaining that television is home to reverse sexism.
Why?Because men can t condescend to women on TV, and that s just not fair.Wah wah wah someone bring the guy a tissue before he blows his nose all over the women he s working with.
Bill Hemmer was speaking with Jessica Tarlov about the debate, and Tarlov said she feels it s absolutely appropriate for Hillary to criticize Trump s misogyny and racism while onstage.
When Tarlov began listing specific examples of Trump being racist and misogynistic, she said, I could go on, obviously, to which conservative lobbyist Matt Schlapp said, You are!
Hemmer cut in with: We work in television.
And I ve always thought that when a man and a woman is on television, a woman can be sarcastic or even, perhaps, a little condescending toward a man and it s okay.
But a man can never do that to a woman and get away with it.
Watch below:While Hemmer s logic might sound reasonable on the surface, here s why it s not: Reverse oppression (racism against whites, sexism against men, discrimination against straight, cisgender people, etc.)
doesn t exist because oppressors can t suddenly become the oppressed.
Oppression, particularly by straight, white, cis, Christian men, is woven into our society.
It s insidious.
And while yes, men can experience prejudice and stereotype, our society is built by men, for men.
Prejudice and stereotype are not the same as oppression.It s not about one person being an asshat to another, which is what Hemmer is really whining about and equates with so-called reverse sexism.
When Schlapp responded to Tarlov s litany of Trump sins with, You are!
he was putting her in her place, not arguing her point.
That is sexist.
That s relegating her and her arguments into the background as irrelevant on the basis of her gender, not the merits of her argument.As a woman, Tarlov can t send a man back into the background because he s not in the background to begin with, as she is.
That s just the way it is.Since Hemmer works for Fox Noise, though, it s only natural that he probably won t even attempt to understand this.As far as Trump and the debates, Hillary won t be putting Trump in the man s place when she calls him out on his sexism, racism, etc.
She can t but he can try and put her in her place and he does it all the time.
She s calling out fundamental flaws in Trump that make him unsuited to lead a country that desperately needs its oppressive structures torn down.
He, on the other hand, will build on those very structures.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video