The only thing more irritating to a woman than a mansplainer is perhaps his more dangerous cousin, the gunsplainer.TwitterTo address the horrible type of person, Cosmopolitan teamed up with Everytown for Gun Safety, a movement that aims to end gun violence, to form the campaign Singled Out to raise awareness and empower unmarried women about gun violence and the danger associated with firearms.Singledout.orgThanks to this initiative, a humorous how-to guide has been released that shows women how to deal with a man who repeatedly and condescendingly explains to a woman why she d be safer if she had a gun also known as a gunsplainer.
Here s the hilarious short film:It almost seems insane that an adult would make some of these arguments, but the male actor s lines echo the exact arguments that have been used by the National Rifle Association and gun nuts all over America.In the video, a gunsplainer named Gary tries to pick up a woman named Jessica in a bar.
They get into a discussion about guns, and Jessica reveals she is in the service, which only eggs Gary on.
Before Jessica can run away, Gary has launched into full gunsplaining mode, putting the responsibility on victims to defend themselves with guns.
He reveals that he takes his guns literally EVERYWHERE with him, because These guns are the only things standing between us and tyranny.
Soon, he s opening his jacket to reveal an entire collection of guns hanging around his torso.
All the while, he s using sexist pet names like schnookums and lady soldier which only repulses Jessica even more.Toward the end, Gary actually insists that hammers were the real threat to Americans.
His idiocy proves too much for Jessica to stomach, so she walks away right after Gary calls her a pistol.
In parting, she says: Guess that s why I m going to have to shoot you down.
Not only is Gary straight-up irritating, but pretty much every argument he makes is wrong.
It s actually been proven that guns don t keep women safer.
According to a study, women with access to firearms become homicide victims at significantly higher rates than men.
Women in America are also 11 times more likely to be killed by a gun than women in other high-income countries.
Unfortunately, there are gunsplainers like Gary all around us who are in denial of the facts and keeping America a dangerous place.
Hopefully with more awareness and initiatives like Singled Out, the truth will make it through.Featured image is a screenshot