Alabama Governor Robert Bentley claims to be a family values conservative Christian, but because of an affair with a woman who was not his wife he ll have to find a church that supports hypocrisy.The Republican governor has resisted repeated calls for him to resign his office despite a scandalous audio recording of Bentley admitting to having an affair with Rebekah Mason, a staffer who works for him.
I love you, Bentley told Mason in the recording.
I love to talk to you.
Baby, let me tell you what we re going to have to start doing, we re going to have to start locking the door.
If we are going to do what we did the other day, we are going to have to start locking the door.
To spell it out for anyone who doesn t get it, Bentley told Mason they ll have to lock the door because their relationship became physical, which Bentley denies even though that would be the logical reason why they have to start locking the door.
So someone doesn t walk in on them and catch them in the act.Having heard the tape, Bentley s wife filed for divorce, which is not exactly a PR dream come true if you re a lawmaker who touts traditional marriage and Christian morality as reasons to oppose same-sex marriage.
I have always believed in the Biblical definition of marriage as being between one man and one woman, Bentley said when the Supreme Court handed down the decision to legalize same-sex marriage across the nation last summer.
Apparently he meant between one man and one woman and another secret woman in a locked room.
I made a mistake, Bentley said during a press conference on Wednesday.
Two years ago I made a mistake.
I have apologized many times to my family.
I have apologized to the family of Mrs. Mason.
I would now like to apologize to the people of Alabama.
I ask them to forgive me.
I ve been told about the possibility of tapes for two years.
While he is still waiting for the people of Alabama to forgive him, Bentley s own church isn t much in the forgiving mood.The First Baptist Church of Tuscaloosa, where Bentley was a deacon, has officially expelled the governor and Mason.Senior Pastor Gil McKee told Christian News Network, while church discipline is a church family matter, both Governor Robert Bentley and Mrs. Rebekah Mason are no longer members of First Baptist Church Tuscaloosa.
I continue to pray for each of them.
That s right.
Bentley s own church can t stomach having him as a member anymore because he not only cheated on his wife while waving Christianity and family values in the faces of his constituents, he is lying about it and refusing to take responsibility by stepping down in disgrace.Seriously, Governor.
Resign.
That s the only right step you can take that will satisfy the people of Alabama and the God you claim to worship.
Featured image via YouTube