Listening to several of the Republican candidates for president, one could wonder if they ve been in a cryogenic sleep for the past seven years, and they re still talking about how badly George W. Bush screwed things up.
However, no, they keep repeating the lie that the nation is so much worse now than it was at the brink of a recession before President Obama took over.
Republican voters should honestly be insulted by this, being treated like idiots absent from reality.
Although, maybe they are idiots absent to reality, and these Republican candidates are just being opportunistic.Repeating this lie of seven disastrous years of Obama, Marco Rubio took to the media branch of the GOP, Fox News, to give a quick campaign message and offer his well wishes for the new year.
Hi, this is Marco Rubio, a senator from Florida, and a candidate for President of the United States.
As we leave 2015 behind and look forward to 2016, with the elections that are coming up in November, this is the year where we re going to have a chance to turn America around.
After seven disastrous years of the current president, we have a chance to reclaim the American dream, and that s why I m running for president.
And my resolution for 2016 is to do everything I can to not just restore the American dream, but to expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before.
So that this, the greatest country in the world, can be greater than it s ever been.
So, what America does Rubio want to go back to, exactly?
One where people are losing their homes?
One where jobs are lost at a rate of 750,000 per month?
One where people could be denied healthcare for a preexisting condition?
One where the 14th amendment is ignored and marriage equality doesn t exist?
One where Osama bin Laden is still alive?
One where credit card companies can still screw customers over left and right?Honestly, what does Rubio want to do to turn America around, because it sure as hell looks as though we are headed in the right direction, and if anything could stand a candidate to continue Obama s progress and advance it further.Rubio apparently wants an America where Wall Street runs the show, people die or go bankrupt from lack of health coverage, and Americans aren t treated equally under the law.
So, if that s the America Rubio wants thanks, but no thanks.
.
@marcorubio: This is the year where we re going to have a chance to turn America around.
#FoxNews2016 https://t.co/yvze0WpCKg Fox News (@FoxNews) January 1, 2016 Video/Featured image: Twitter