In the aftermath of Great Britain voting to leave the European Union, President Obama urged Americans to reject xenophobia by voting against Trump and his bigotry in November.President Obama made the remarks during a fundraising speech in support of Washington Governor Jay Inslee on Friday.Driven by fear and xenophobia, 52 percent of voters in the United Kingdom opted to leave the European Union, which had serious repercussions on world markets as Donald Trump and other Republicans cheered the decision.President Obama had hoped the people of Great Britain would reject fear and hate but that didn t happen, which is why his hopes now rest with the American people to do in November what the UK did not.
That s the choice you face this November, President Obama said.
Between dividing ourselves up, looking for scapegoats, ignoring the evidence, or realizing that we are all stronger together.
If we turn against each other, whether it s divisions of race or religion, we re not going to build on the progress we ve started.
If we get cynical and just vote our fears or we don t vote at all, we won t build on the progress we ve started.
America has been a story of progress but has not gone in a straight line.
There have been times when we ve gone forward and there have been times when we ve gone backwards.
And what s made the difference each and every time is citizens voting, and caring, and committing to our better selves.
In other words, voting matters and it s never been more important to exercise our right to vote than it will be this November.President Obama capped off his speech by slamming the bigoted, divisive, and hateful values of Donald Trump and urged Americans to reject those values for the sake of our children and the future of our country.
Coming together around our common values and our faith in hard work and our faith in each other and the belief in opportunity for everybody and assuming the best in each other and not the worst.
Because whatever our differences we all love this country and we all care fiercely about our children s futures.
And we don t have time for charlatans and we don t have time for hatred and we don t have time for bigotry and we don t have time for film-flam and we don t have the luxury of just popping off and saying just whatever comes to the top of our heads.
Don t have time for that.
Here s the video via MSNBC.The people of Great Britain made a terrible mistake by voting to exit the European Union.
They let fear dictate their decisions and that is incredibly disappointing.
America must once again lead by example and reject the fear and xenophobia that is tightening its grip on Europe.
We need to be better.
The stakes are too high to sit at home on Election Day.
We must not give in to the blind fear and hate that Republicans are hoping will give them complete control over the nation.
If we do, all the progress we have made over the last century will have been for nothing and the people who want to watch the world burn will achieve their goals.Featured image via screen capture