Just over a week ago, the state of Florida became home to the worst mass shooting in modern American history.
Omar Mateen walked into Pulse Nightclub in Orlando and opened fire with a semi-automatic rifle, murdering 49 people and injuring 53 others.
In the week since the attack, Republicans have proven just how little they care about the people they are supposed to serve and there is no greater example of this than Greg Evers a GOP candidate for Congress.Evers is a candidate for a congressional district that is located just a couple hours away from Orlando and he has decided that the best way to honor the people lost at Pulse is to give away a gun that is similar to the one they were murdered with.
The candidate announced the Independence Day raffle on Facebook, saying: With terrorism incidents on the rise, both at home and abroad, protecting our constitutional rights has never been more important.
With all that s happening in the world today, I ve never felt stronger about the importance of the second amendment in protecting our homeland than I do now.
The Washington Post reports:The custom-built AR-15 rifle, which the Evers campaign says is the Homeland Defender collector s edition, will be given away to one randomly chosen person who has liked and shared Evers page or signed up on his campaign website.
It is open only to adults in the district.
The winner will be selected on July 4 and must pass all required background and security checks.The rifle was made in Santa Rosa Beach, Florida, and displays the Second Amendment on a metal plate on the right side near the trigger guard.On Evers Facebook page (which has a whopping 2,952 fans), Evers whined that his gun giveaway post had been removed after a California-based liberal activist reported the post for promoting graphic violence.'
It s interesting that he is trying to convince Florida voters that a scary liberal from California is out to get him, especially given the fact that Facebook does not tell users who reported their posts.https://www.facebook.com/882110315244181/photos/a.896229197165626.1073741828.882110315244181/918169401638272/?type=3&theaterSo, not only is Evers an NRA puppet, he is a lying NRA puppet.As a Florida resident and the best friend of someone who lost someone in the shooting at Pulse, I can not adequately describe how sick it makes me to see Republicans using the massacre to push their MOAR GUNZ!
agenda.
If the GOP actually cared about us, they would pass common sense gun legislation, but they refuse.
Their response to the shooting is more evidence of why we should vote blue, no matter who.Featured image via Facebook