Donald Trump is a perpetual failure as a human being whose only redeeming quality is that he appeals to ignorant buffoons who only care about hating people and being politically incorrect.
There are, unfortunately, a whole lot of those deranged lunatics who are silly enough to believe that Donald Trump will be anything but an embarrassment as president.So here we are, on the cusp of what we all considered a joke for months becoming the next American reality.
We are immature enough to put an unqualified reality star who displays textbook signs of narcissistic personality disorder on a major party ticket for president.
That makes America as a country incredibly sad.Here in the real world we re gearing up for a Donald Trump run with the kinds of things real people and independents want to hear about: Donald Trump the scumbag.
Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz started to get down on Trump for his biggest blunder ever, the one that truly shows what Donald Trump thinks of the common American: Trump University.That s right, folks For just under $40K you too can learn nothing about real estate and get a degree in nothing and know nothing and earn nothing but a photo with a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump.
Trump is accused of a ponzi-like scheme that lured people in thinking they would learn tricks from a mogul and instead learned how expensive it is to believe anything Donald Trump says.Now, during GOP debates, all of this is right out there amidst the stupidity and endless little catfights.
During presidential and vice-presidential debates, they re going to have to put that lunatic on stage with the Democratic nominee and debate using the kind of talking points you can only hide in the Republican primaries.
Donald Trump s bully tactics and condescending attitude aren t going to fly well when it comes to the sane people of this country.In the end, the Democratic nominee, in a one on one moderated debate, will take the lawsuit that s been working its way through layers of Donald Trump s shadiness and jam it down his political throat.
Eric Schneiderman, New York State Attorney General, Isn t a fan of Trump s actions.
He said in a statement: No one, no matter how rich or famous they are, has a right to scam hardworking New Yorkers.
Anyone who does should expect to be held accountable.
The attorney general noted that Trump personally persuaded more than 5,000 people, 600 of them New Yorkers, to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn t afford for lessons they never got.
This is the kind of thing nobody should get away with.
It s pathetic.
It screams Donald Trump.
Trump s response is to pretend it doesn t exist and call people names.
Let s see how that works out against Secretary Clinton or Senator Sanders.Featured image from Gage Skidmore