Very little is more infuriating for women than to have our appearances policed.
Yet, police us people do, usually by criticizing what s in fashion and calling it too immodest, and crying that men can t stop staring and thus are sinning in their hearts, or saying that women over a certain age should not wear this or that.
One of the latest incidents comes from Alan Sorrentino, of Rhode Island, who wrote a letter to editor for EastBayRI saying women over 20 should not be wearing yoga pants in public.Yoga pants draw a lot of ire from the supposedly pious and the supposedly weak-willed.
Sorrentino s specific targeting of women in yoga pants earned him a yoga pants parade through the street in front of his house.
Hundreds of people men and women participated while wearing yoga pants.Yes, there were men wearing yoga pants to stand in solidarity with women who are tired of being told what they can and cannot wear, and paraded with women in front of Sorrentino s house.
Sorrentino got more than an eyeful of the struggles with physicality that he doesn t want to see anymore: To all yoga pant wearers, I struggle with my own physicality as I age.
I don t want to struggle with yours.
Thanks.
His problem is that, as women age, we lose our beauty and our bodies, which, to people like him, necessarily restrict what we can wear.
It s like he thinks that if we re not young and beautiful, we should hide ourselves in some way (oh wait, that s exactly what he thinks): Like the mini-skirt, yoga pants can be adorable on children and young women who have the benefit of nature s blessing of youth.
However, on mature, adult women there is something bizarre and disturbing about the appearance they make in public.
Maybe it s the unforgiving perspective they provide, inappropriate for general consumption, TMI, or the spector [sic] of someone coping poorly with their weight or advancing age that makes yoga pants so weird in public.A nice pair of tailored slacks, jeans, or anything else would be better than those stinky, tacky, ridiculous looking yoga pants.
They do nothing to compliment a women over 20 years old.
In fact, the look is bad.
Do yourself a favor, grow up and stop wearing them in public.
[emphasis mine]How disgusting.
If someone is dressed or presenting an appearance we don t want to see, we can, you know, just look somewhere else.
Or better yet, we can accept that there are things in this world that we personally would rather not see.
Truly mature people, one of whom Sorrentino clearly isn t, recognize that it s not our place to tell other people what they can and cannot wear based on our personal comfort.Sorrentino is now claiming he wrote the letter as a joke, and the paper is defending its decision to publish it by explaining that they publish all opinions as long as they aren t attacking a person or a group: In this case, Mr. Sorrentino is not attacking any individual nor specific group.
It s safe to assume that his comments target a large portion of America s female population, and that group obviously has ample firepower to respond to Mr. Sorrentino and his opinions.
Telling women over 20 how they can and cannot dress isn t attacking women?
Okay then.
That s systemic sexism, though.
Here s hoping the yoga pants parade got Sorrentino s attention, and he rethinks his position.
Joke or not, it was inappropriate at best.Here s a short video from the parade:The #YogaPantsParade is underway @ABC6 pic.twitter.com/VItosLSLaA Bianca Buono (@BBuonoABC6) October 23, 2016Featured image via screen capture from embedded video