GOP Rep. Devin Nunes is feeling the burn after Nancy Pelosi ripped him a new one on Thursday.On Wednesday, Nunes went to the White House to personally give information to Donald Trump about the House Intelligence Committee s investigation into his Russia scandal.Nunes claimed that some Trump team members were incidentally caught on surveillance conducted by foreign intelligence and then suggested to the media that Trump s accusation against President Obama was right all along.
I guess it all depends on one s definition of spying, Nunes said during the rushed press conference, which was put together in a desperate effort to defend Trump.Nunes press conference and his visit to the White House were done without the knowledge of the rest of the committee.
Clearly, Nunes went rogue and disgraced himself in the process since he is the chairman of the committee.Furthermore, Nunes actions make it clear that he s not interested in conducting a fair investigation.
He s only interested in helping Trump.And that s why Nancy Pelosi nailed him to the wall.
Chairman Nunes is deeply compromised, and he cannot possibly lead an honest investigation, Pelosi told reporters.
He committed a stunt at the White House yesterday raising questions about Chairman Nunes impartiality.
Pelosi reminded the press that Nunes worked on Trump s transition team so it definitely looks like Nunes is doing Trump s bidding.She then blasted Republicans for desperately saying anything to help Trump.
The Republicans are grasping at straws, Pelosi said.
FBI Director Comey confirmed that President Obama did not wiretap President Trump, affirmed an investigation into links and coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the Trump campaign.
Indeed, Comey dropped these bombshells last week during under oath testimony to Congress.
The revelations nuked whatever shred of credibility Trump had left and now charges of treason are hanging over Trump and his administration.But Pelosi wasn t done with Nunes yet.
She had even stronger words for him.
By being a stooge of the president of the United States, he has demonstrated very clearly that there is no way there can be an impartial investigation under his leadership on that committee, Pelosi declared.
She then went on to call for the creation of an independent commission to continue the investigation.Here s the video via Twitter..@NancyPelosi calls House Intelligence Cmte Chair Devin Nunes a stooge for the president of the United States pic.twitter.com/RlqfPA5fNE CSPAN (@cspan) March 23, 2017It s clear that House Republicans are colluding with Donald Trump to help him discredit the investigation against him.
There needs to be an independent commission and a special prosecutor involved.
Republicans have zero credibility to do their jobs.
Nunes went behind his colleague s backs to deliver information to Trump and then held a hasty press conference.
He s a shill for Trump, and this video of Nunes refusing to say whether he got his information from Trump proves it.Republicans are rigging the House Intelligence Committee investigation and something needs to be done about it.Featured image via screenshot