After Obama was embarrassed by Donald Trump acting more presidential than he, as Trump traveled to one of the poorest states in America bringing a semi-truck filled with needs for the LA flood victims.
He finally managed to find his way off the golf course on Martha s Vineyard to visit the people who couldn t have cared less if he showed or not, by the time he got there.
Like Trump said, it was too little too late for Obama s phony photo-op.Of course, only Obama could turn the flood into a race issue.
While refusing so far to survey the Louisiana flood disaster until days later, he did let state and local officials know that he s watching to make sure they don t engage in racial discrimination.
In a 16-page guidance issued Tuesday, the Obama administration, led by the Justice Department, warned Louisiana recipients of federal disaster assistance against engaging in unlawful discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin (including limited English proficiency).
The guidance s frameworks highlight the importance of complying with nondiscrimination requirements of civil rights statutes, addressing the needs of the whole community, and ensuring equal opportunity to access recovery efforts.
Black residents should be asking where the thousands of Black Lives Matter protesters, who are so concerned about the lives of Blacks in America are when they really could ve used their help?
George Soros, Al Sharpton and Barack are so good at organizing, why weren t they putting their heads together and coming up with a plan to help the poor black residents of LA who had lost everything they owned to the historic flooding?
They can be organized in a very short time to create chaos, burn cities and loot, but where are they when they have an opportunity to do something positive for Blacks in LA?
The recent flooding that hit Louisiana is the worst natural disaster to hit the United States since Hurricane Sandy hit New Jersey in 2012.
So far we know that at least 13 are dead and tens of thousands were left homeless in the flooding.
Even worse, most of those affected do not have flood insurance.
Up to $21 billion worth of housing stock was wiped out by the deluge of rain.The recovery will be long and difficult in one of the poorest states in the country.
There is the challenge of finding employment and housing for all these displaced people.
Given the fact that Louisiana is a hot and humid state most of the year, there will also be the issues of dealing with mold and increased injuries as people try to rebuild.But one of the greatest stories of the Louisiana flooding is how the people and free markets are playing a role in helping to both rescue people and deliver relief much quicker than the government.Black patriot Arlene Barnum asks, Where s the BlackLivesMatter men?
Citizens to the RescueThe rains that swamped parts of Louisiana over a period of a few days were relentless.
Local governments and first responders were overwhelmed with calls for help from people trapped in their homes by rising waters.#CajunNavy pic.twitter.com/hjScnNu7Gy Ben Sanders (@BenSandersLaw) August 14, 2016Instead of waiting for the government to come rescue them, the people of Louisiana used their own privately-owned boats to save their neighbors.
This Cajun Navy drew its ranks and fleet from Louisiana s large numbers of sportsmen.
People who needed rescue contacted a Facebook group and the boats used smartphone apps such as the GPS app Glympse and the walkie talkie app Zello to coordinate.
The Cajun Navy was responsible for saving the lives of thousands of Louisianians and their pets and livestock.#CajunNavy is shown deploying in this pic by Troy @gulfsails #BatonRougeFlood pic.twitter.com/P9yI0QRQoM walter michot (@WalterMichot) August 15, 2016#CajunNavy doing what they can to help in #BatonRouge pic.twitter.com/7nltb8Q1nU Ashley Doan (@AshleyMDoan) August 15, 2016The people of Louisiana also distributed immediate relief to their displaced neighbors much more efficiently than the government was able to.
One of the best examples of this was the conversion of a movie studio into a shelter housing over 2,000 people.
The Celtic Media Centre is one of Louisiana s premier film production studios located in Baton Rouge, which was one of the cities hardest hit by the flooding.
The studio s executive director, Patrick Mulhearn, saw how devastated his neighbors were by the high water and decided to open up Celtic as an emergency shelter.There were smaller examples of churches opening themselves up, without prodding by either the Red Cross or the state government, as storm shelters for those who lost everything.
Such shelters are all over the parishes that were flooded, and have largely been stocked with supplies by volunteers all over the state.
People are even taking donations to the parking lots of stores that were unaffected to bring food, water, and other supplies to the flood zone.People looking to donate supplies have been coordinating their relief efforts on Facebook and other social media.
If people are looking to donate supplies, they can use social media to find places to drop them off.
If people in other parts of the state and out of state want to donate, they re being directed on social media to places where they can help.Even while the streets of Louisiana flooded, trucks from Wal-Mart and UPS did not stop rolling.
Wal-Mart, in particular, was able to use its corporate meteorologists to plan delivery routes and shift deliveries of much-needed supplies such as baby formula and water to the affected areas.
UPS is able to prioritize delivery of items such as mail order prescription drugs.
Companies are rushing supplies into the disaster area quicker than lethargic government agencies and the Red Cross.Motivated by HistoryIn 2005, after Hurricane Katrina, Louisianians tried waiting on the government.
That help never came and over 1,500 Louisianians died in the flood waters of New Orleans, St. Bernard Parish, Plaquemines Parish, and Jefferson Parish.
The people of Louisiana learned the hard way that they had to rescue themselves.The people of Louisiana were motivated by a sense of community.
While the Federal government was giving anti-discrimination lectures to flood victims, the Cajun Navy was rescuing people of all races.
Louisiana has come together like never before.But it wasn t just the compassion of the people of Louisiana that saved lives.
Companies which were seeking profit were also responsible.
Everyone from the smartphone app developers to the retailers who provided the products to sustain and save lives played a role in this.
Businesses and entrepreneurs meeting the needs of customers were literally lifesavers.For entire story: Kevin Boyd