Jared Fogle, the ex-Subway pitchman convicted of having sex with underage girls, is suing the parents of one his victims, claiming the girl s problems following the sexual abuse are their fault, not his.
According to court documents that were filed on Thursday, Fogle is placing the blame for his victim s personal injuries and emotional distress squarely on the shoulders of her own parents rather than his own.The girl, who is listed as Jane Doe in court records, was secretly recorded undressing and bathing while she was in the home of Russell Taylor, who was a close friend of Fogle.
Last year, Fogle pleaded guilty to viewing those tapes.
He was eventually sentenced to almost 16 years behind bars for having sex with minors, as well as receiving and distributing child pornography.
He was also ordered to pay $100,000 to each of the girls he had abused, including Jane Doe.In other words, there is no doubt of this pervert s guilt at this point.Earlier this year, Jane Doe sued Fogle for an additional $150,000 in damages related to his crimes against her.
Fogle says her emotional distress isn t his fault at all.
Nope.
So who s fault is it?
Her parents.In the lawsuit filed by Fogle, he alleges that the girl was depressed, had a history of drug and alcohol abuse, and was promiscuous long before he and his buddy decided to use her in their kiddie porn.
He claims that Jane Doe s parents, named in court documents as J.T.
and B.T.
didn t supervise her properly.
He added that mom and dad screwed her up with their own messy divorce and abusive relationship.
The outrageous and reckless conduct of J.T.
and B.T.
committed over a period of several years inflicted personal injuries, emotional distress and psychological injury on Jane Doe from which she will continue to suffer, the document states.
B.T.
and J.T., by their actions, caused Jane Doe to suffer from emotional distress and depression which then resulted in Jane Doe engaging in destructive behaviors, including, but not limited to alcohol abuse, substance abuse, self-mutilation, and suicidal ideation with regard to which B.T.
and J.T.
are liable.
Because of this, Fogle is asking the court to hold Jane Doe s parents liable for their daughter s emotional distress and all other relief the court deems proper.
Featured image via Jason Merritt/Getty Images