Trump rallies are not for the meek.
They re for the racist, misogynistic violent dregs of society and they re for the super brave who oppose them and who may well get beaten up for having the gall to attend.
18-year old Anna Lehane took a chance, though, and attended an Oct. 10 rally while wearing a deliberately inflammatory t-shirt.It didn t say Black Lives Matter, which is what both of her friends wore.
Her shirt read this: Grab my pussy.
I dare you.
Now that Trump rally is over, here is picture of this bold young protester s message pic.twitter.com/ZCnCHWTqBQ Trip Gabriel (@tripgabriel) October 11, 2016That is a bold message, particularly for a young woman at a Trump rally.
She told The Huffington Post: I made the shirt as a protest to people in the public spotlight on such a global platform making such disrespectful, degrading and misogynistic comments and still being taken seriously.
It s patently disgusting that Trump is even still in the running for President, and still has the following he does, after we learned that he brags about sexually harassing and assaulting women.
It s exposed a fundamental and sickening flaw in right-wing culture in the U.S.Some are questioning the foolhardiness of such a t-shirt.
If Lehane had gotten grabbed, no doubt many would blame her for inviting it with that t-shirt.
And she did get a lot of lewd comments about it from what she called creepy old men at the rally.Then there s this guy, on Twitter, who basically said something similar to what a lot of white people say about black people protesting police brutality there s a time, a place and an appropriate way to make a statement.
That comes from discomfort with the message, and is intended to silence.
Nonetheless:@tripgabriel @MarkRosner3 That isn t brave.
It s vulgar and stupid.
Jason M. Kates (@JasonMKates) October 11, 2016@Shapunkin The shirt is vulgar.
There s no arguing that.
It s stupid to wear vulgarity.
I suppose some stupid people would argue that.
Jason M. Kates (@JasonMKates) October 11, 2016Newsflash: Protesting is supposed to be disruptive and scary.
It s supposed to make us uncomfortable.
Otherwise the message is totally lost.
That s why did Lehane did it: I felt disillusioned then with the opinions of [Trump] and any woman who supports him, Lehane tells ELLE.com over the phone, You can t control how I vote by grabbing my whatever.
The fact that I m a woman doesn t mean that I m easily influenced or controllable or someone who shouldn t be taken seriously.'
Indeed, women aren t being taken seriously with this.
Many of us have come forward with our own, painful stories of harassment and assault something we shouldn t have to do to be heard and still gotten slapped down as though we don t matter.
When we stand up for ourselves in light of Trump s sexual assault boasts, we re told everything from, That s boys being boys; you re being too sensitive, to This is why progressives lose, to Other issues matter much more than this, to You need to understand that they were just words.
And so much more.Please.Wearing that kind of a shirt at a Trump rally is brave.
You can t make a point, and drive home a message, when you do it the way other people want you to do it.
Lehane seems to know that, which is why she did what she did.Featured image via screen capture from embedded tweet