Senate Republicans sink to a new disgraceful low in their childish effort prevent President Obama from filling the vacant Supreme Court seat.When asked about potential Supreme Court nominees, John Cornyn, the second highest ranking Republican in the Senate literally issued a threat to anyone who might accept the nomination from President Obama that their career and reputation will be intentionally ruined by Senate Republicans.
I think they will bear some resemblance to a pi ata, Cornyn said according to CNN.
What I don t understand is how someone who actually wants to be confirmed to the Supreme Court would actually allow themselves to be used by the administration in a political fight that s going to last from now until the end of the year.
Because there is no guarantee, certainly, after that time they re going to look as good as they did going in.
Yes, Senate Republicans are so desperate to get their way that they are willing to destroy the life of anyone President Obama nominates to fill the empty Supreme Court seat even if that person has impeccable credentials and is absolutely qualified to do the job.This angered Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid so much that he entered the CNN article into the Congressional Record, where it will remain as an example of just how petulant Republicans have become, and then he took to the Senate floor to blast Cornyn and the GOP.
Think about that.
They don t know who the nominee is, they don t know anything about the person, but they already have in their mind they are going to beat this person like a pi ata.
It doesn t matter who it is.
Man, woman, old, young, it doesn t matter.
Doesn t matter what their education is, what their experience is, they re going to beat them like a pi ata.
I think they ve been listening to Donald Trump too much.
The Republicans need to stop and listen to this disgusting rhetoric they re spewing This is vile behavior that is beneath the dignity of this institution.
Here s the video of Reid remarks via YouTube:And the American people overwhelmingly agree with Democrats on this issue.Three major polls, including a Fox News poll, reveal that most Americans WANT President Obama to nominate a replacement for Scalia and they WANT Senate Republicans to do their jobs and hold fair confirmation hearings even more.
A Rasmussen poll says the same thing, and so does a CNN/ORC poll released this month.But rather than backtrack his remarks and apologize for his utter lack of professionalism, Cornyn doubled down on his threat and this time used the Senate floor to repeat his offensive promise to destroy the reputation and career of anyone who accepts the nomination, suggesting that President Obama would be at fault if Senate Republicans did such a thing.
I would be surprised if any person who actually aspired to be on the United States Supreme Court, a current judge or a legal scholar or lawyer, would allow themselves to be used by this administration in making a nomination to the Supreme Court for a seat that will not be filled during the remainder of President Obama s term.
Knowing that they won t be confirmed.
This is totally outrageous and Senate Republicans should be ashamed of themselves.
They have thumbed their nose at the American people and are an embarrassment to the nation and Constitution they claim to serve.Featured Image: Wikimedia