Republicans across the country have been doing all they can to avoid town hall meetings where angry constituents are waiting.
But Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) should win some type of award for his despicable excuse.Earlier this week, Gohmert claimed that he hadn t scheduled a town hall meeting to discuss important issues with the people he represents because with all the angry protesters around he s afraid of a shooting like the one that involved Congresswoman Gabby Giffords.
But don t worry.
This isn t because he s a coward.
It s just that he wants to keep his constituents safe.
Unfortunately, at this time there are groups from the more violent strains of the leftist ideology, some even being paid, who are preying on public town halls to wreak havoc and threaten public safety.
Threats are nothing new to me and I have gotten my share as a felony judge.
However, the House Sergeant at Arms advised us after former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords was shot at a public appearance, that civilian attendees at Congressional public events stand the most chance of being harmed or killed just as happened there.
In a scathing statement, Giffords slammed Gohmert for his cowardly comments and basically told him to grow a pair.
She pointed out that her offices were open after her shooting.
Giffords added that the representative who took her place during that difficult time also continued to hold town halls rather than hide from the people.
Her statement ended by shaming Gohmert and telling him, point blank, to have some courage.
I was shot on a Saturday morning.
By Monday morning my offices were open to the public.
Ron Barber at my side that Saturday, who was shot multiple times, then elected to Congress in my stead held town halls.
It s what the people deserve in a representative.
In the past year, campaigning for gun safety, I have held over 50 public events.
To the politicians who have abandoned their civic obligations, I say this: Have some courage.
Face your constituents.
Hold town halls.
Giffords followed her statement up with a tweet that shared the same message.To the politicians who have abandoned their civic obligations, I say this: Have some courage.
Face your constituents.
Hold town halls.
Gabrielle Giffords (@GabbyGiffords) February 23, 2017It is also worth noting that Republicans aren t willing to pass legislation that might help control the massive gun problem clutching the United States.
They d prefer to continue playing the puppet for the NRA and then hide from the people they re supposed to represent because they re scared that they might get shot.
Unbelievable.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images