If Donald Trump were a smart man, he d be doing everything he possibly could to woo New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez who has not yet thrown her support behind him.
She is the perfect GOP poster woman tough on crime, anti-immigration, pro-corporate tax cuts, opposes Obamacare, and she is anti-gay marriage.
However, instead of doing what a typical candidate would do and trying to win Governor Martinez over with his plans for the future, Trump has chosen to attack and bully an endorsement out of her.During a rally in Albuquerque, New Mexico on Tuesday night, the presumptive Republican nominee slammed the governor to his vapid supporters: We have got to get your governor to get going.
She s got to do a better job.
Okay?
Your governor has got to do a better job.
She s not doing the job.
Hey!
Maybe I ll run for governor of New Mexico.
I ll get this place going.
She s not doing the job.
We ve got to get her moving.
Come on: Let s go, governor.
Trump went on to say, Syrian refugees are being relocated in large numbers to New Mexico.
If I was governor, that wouldn t be happening.
LIES!First of all, Governor Martinez is one of those Republicans who has no interest in helping Syrian refugees.
She believes that the government doesn t vet refugees; basically, she has no idea what she is talking about.
Because of her lack of education on how resettlement works, her state is not very welcoming.
In fact, the Refugee Processing Center reports only ten Syrian refugees have been settled in New Mexico since 2011, the year Martinez assumed office.TEN.
That s the large number of Syrians Trump is talking about.So, the question of the day is: Did Trump s speech convince the governor to support him?Not even a little.Martinez spokesman Mike Lonergan issued a statement responding to Trump s criticism: Apparently, Donald Trump doesn t realize Governor Martinez wasn t elected in 2000, that she has fought for welfare reform, and has strongly opposed the President s Syrian refugee plan.
But the pot shots weren t about policy, they were about politics.
And the Governor will not be bullied into supporting a candidate until she is convinced that candidate will fight for New Mexicans.
Governor Martinez doesn t care about what Donald Trump says about her she cares about what he says he will do to help New Mexicans.
She didn t hear anything about that today.
Good for her.
I may disagree nearly all of Governor Martinez s policies but at least she isn t going to allow a misogynistic jackass bully her into submission.Featured image via Mark Lyons/Getty Images