Hillary Clinton tells about funding the terrorists who would help defeat the Russians most of this is true but in typical Hillary fashion she changes the story and doesn t mention Reagan s Strategic Defense Initiative.
The SDI aka Star Wars was a big part in the defeat as well.
You can guarantee you ll never see this video clip on the main stream media!
During the 1970 s the CIA used the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt as a barrier, both to thwart Soviet expansion and prevent the spread of Marxist ideology among the Arab masses.
The United States also openly supported Sarekat Islam against Sukarno in Indonesia, and supported the Jamaat-e-Islami terror group against Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto in Pakistan.
Last but certainly not least, there is Al Qaeda.Lest we forget, the CIA gave birth to Osama Bin Laden and breastfed his organization during the 1980 s. Former British Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, told the House of Commons that Al Qaeda was unquestionably a product of Western intelligence agencies.
Mr. Cook explained that Al Qaeda, which literally means an abbreviation of the database in Arabic, was originally the computer database of the thousands of Islamist extremists, who were trained by the CIA and funded by the Saudis, in order to defeat the Russians in Afghanistan.America s relationship with Al Qaeda has always been a love-hate affair.
Depending on whether a particular Al Qaeda terrorist group in a given region furthers American interests or not, the U.S. State Department either funds or aggressively targets that terrorist group.
Even as American foreign policy makers claim to oppose Muslim extremism, they knowingly foment it as a weapon of foreign policy.The Islamic State is its latest weapon that, much like Al Qaeda, is certainly backfiring.
ISIS recently rose to international prominence after its thugs began beheading American journalists.
Now the terrorist group controls an area the size of the United Kingdom.In order to understand why the Islamic State has grown and flourished so quickly, one has to take a look at the organization s American-backed roots.
The 2003 American invasion and occupation of Iraq created the pre-conditions for radical Sunni groups, like ISIS, to take root.
America, rather unwisely, destroyed Saddam Hussein s secular state machinery and replaced it with a predominantly Shiite administration.
The U.S. occupation caused vast unemployment in Sunni areas, by rejecting socialism and closing down factories in the naive hope that the magical hand of the free market would create jobs.FLASHBACK: Hillary Clinton Received Secret Memo Stating Obama Admin Support for ISISUnder the new U.S.-backed Shiite regime, working class Sunni s lost hundreds of thousands of jobs.
Unlike the white Afrikaners in South Africa, who were allowed to keep their wealth after regime change, upper class Sunni s were systematically dispossessed of their assets and lost their political influence.
Rather than promoting religious integration and unity, American policy in Iraq exacerbated sectarian divisions and created a fertile breading ground for Sunni discontent, from which Al Qaeda in Iraq took root.The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) used to have a different name: Al Qaeda in Iraq.
After 2010 the group rebranded and refocused its efforts on Syria.Via: GR