The current occupant of the White House took to his Twitter account on Friday to issue a threat to former FBI Director James Comey.
According to White House press secretary Sean Spicer, though, the threat wasn t really a threat.
That s not a threat, Spicer said during the crazy-time press briefing.
He simply stated a fact.
The tweet speaks for itself.
Well, former CIA official Philip Mudd somewhat agrees with Spicer.
He said he s breathing a sigh of relief after Trump s Twitter storm because it can t be taken seriously.
Mudd said that Trump cannot intimidate the FBI.
You feel like you have to give the President of the United States a pacifier and a rattle and put him in the crib, he told CNN s Kate Bolduan.Mudd called Trump s tweets a joke.
Believe me, I know this is going to sound facetious but I m breathing a sigh of relief.
You can t take this seriously, Mudd said.
You could have taken this seriously from President Bush or President Obama, from President Bush s father, from President Clinton.
You can t take this seriously.
Mudd was referring to Trump s tweet this morning.
James Comey better hope that there are no tapes of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!
he wrote.For someone who called Trump s tweets a joke, Mudd certainly wasn t laughing.
In fact, he seems pissed off at Trump s attempt to threaten the former FBI Director.
You re threatening the FBI, who s in the midst of an investigation of presidential aides?
The FBI s been around since 1908.
The President of the United States has been around for three and a half months, Mudd said.
If you think you re going to intimidate the former FBI director and the dozens of people in the workforce who are conducting this investigation with the Department of Justice, you ve got another thing coming, he added.
Don t worry about it, Mudd said while addressing anyone who is concerned about Trump s recent behavior.
Nobody in the investigation would take this seriously.
Watch:Ex-CIA official Phil Mudd: "You feel like you gotta give the POTUS a pacifier and a rattle and put him in a crib."
https://t.co/6En4Oplg6l CNN (@CNN) May 12, 2017 No one believes this guy anymore, he said after bashing Trump for inflating his inauguration crowd size.Mudd has a healthy resume in the Intelligence field.
He s the former director of the CIA s Counterterrorism Center.
Trump launched a war on the Intelligence community and the media and he will lose that battle.
But first, someone give the fake POTUS his binky, please.Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images.