Since the September 11, 2001 attacks, the United States has been fraught with Islamophobia.
But the 2016 Republican presidential candidates, coupled with the recent Daesh (ISIS/ISIL) attacks and the San Bernardino shooting, the hate has reached a fever pitch.
In response to the rising tide of bigotry, a group of young filmmakers in Tampa, Florida called Peace House have started fighting back with humor instead of anger.Ahmad Hussan and Nick Amaro said that in the days following the arrest of Ahmed The Clock Boy in Texas, they decided to go into their studio and make a parody about the incident.
Their video shows a frightened uncle calling the police because his nephew is holding a clock.
Their brilliant mockery of the incident got nearly eight million views.Hussan told Fox 13 News that they want to expose the ridiculousness of people s anti-Muslim sentiments: When you are laughing at something, you are kind of exposing it for its ridiculousness.
And when someone refers to me, just because of my faith, as a terrorist, that is ridiculous.
In addition to the clock video, the filmmakers have made a video that showcases ignorant family members sitting around a table during the holidays; they called it Happy Hatesgiving.
They also took on Ben Carson s comments that compared Syrian refugees to rabid dogs, and in another they interviewed people for jobs with ISIS.
We are making things that are funny, Amaro explained.
But ultimately, the goal is to make you think deeply about something, to help you understand an issue from a different point of view.
The fact is, the GOP field has used people of the Islamic faith as punching bags for more than a decade.
What s worse is that their constant fear mongering has put targets on the backs of innocent people who want nothing more than to live peacefully like the rest of us.
It s nice to know that this group can laugh about it, but in reality they shouldn t have to.
In 2016 there is no excuse for the rampant ignorance that is so prevalent on the right.Featured image: video screenshot