Donald Trump wants to rule America from his golden tower in New York City, but the ladies of The View want him to go away and never come back.Trump is causing major headaches with his desire to be a part-time president.The New York Times reported over the weekend that Trump wants to spend a large portion of his four-year term living in his Trump Tower apartment instead of the White House, where presidents traditionally live and work until their tenure comes to an end.But while Washington D.C. can handle presidential motorcades and security lockdowns, the city of New York is different.
That s why Trump wanting to keep living in Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue is a nightmare for residents, including the hosts of The View.
Today I m on a little bit of a rant, Whoopi Goldberg began.
Because it took me about seven hours to get to work this morning, because President-elect Donald Trump has his mid-town Manhattan apartment and it s on permanent lockdown.
You need to take your behind to Washington!
You wanted the job!
Go on and go to Washington!
The audience cheered in agreement as Goldberg continued.
You got to go, man!
she shouted.
You got to go!
You cannot stay in Trump Tower!
You got to go!
Sarah Haines agreed, explaining that New York City is not designed to deal with security lockdowns of this nature.
It s a major tourism hub, and Fifth Avenue is one of the busiest streets in the city.
Trump is making the city a living hell that only caters to him by continuing to live there.But Joy Behar had a solution.
He needs to go where people like him, Behar said.
Moscow!
That s a good spot.
And she has a point.
Maybe Putin and Trump can share bunk beds in the Kremlin.A still angry Whoopi Goldberg resumed yelling at Trump to get the f*ck out.
What other president has lived in the town he was hanging out in?
None.
They all go to Washington.
GO!!
Here s the video via Vid Me.Donald Trump is a selfish man who only cares about himself.
If he gets what he wants, residents of Manhattan can expect these kinds of security lockdowns and the inconveniences they cause every single week as Trump plans to split his time between Washington and New York.If he thinks New Yorkers hate him now, they re really going to hate him when he starts messing with traffic every week.Featured image via screenshot