Rick Santorum has been whining about not getting attention from the media, so Bill O Reilly hilarious broke the news to the conservative extremist candidate that nobody cares about him anymore.Earlier this week, Santorum accused the media of predetermining the presidential race before Iowans vote.
Santorum then complained about never being invited on Fox News to be interviewed by Megyn Kelly or Bill O Reilly despite announcing his campaign last May.As you ll recall, Santorum ran for president in 2012 and nearly captured the Republican nomination, which is in stark contrast to 2016 as his latest campaign is nothing short of an absolute joke.
Santorum has been unable to climb out of the low single digits in the polls, even though he has name recognition and conservative voters surely remember who he is.But clearly, things have changed in four years and Santorum is no longer the golden boy of the conservative movement.
That mantle is now owned by Donald Trump and to a lesser extent, Ted Cruz.
A fact which O Reilly broke down for Santorum in simple words so he could understand: I feel Rick Santorum s pain, O Reilly said.
He is absolutely correct; we have not had him on The Factor.
But there is a reason for that.
We re not in the campaigning business.
We do not put politicians on the air simply to spout their slogans.
That s what ads are for.
We cover the news and when a politician is in the news then they get on the program.
That s why Donald Trump gets so much air time.
He s dominating the news cycle by injecting controversy into the political arena.
Then O Reilly dropped the hammer on Santorum and his remaining hopes to revive his struggling campaign.
Honestly, we looked for a reason to put Santorum on, but we couldn t find any.
His poll numbers are very low, his campaign strategy is what it was four years ago.
There s simply nothing new.
Here s the video via YouTube:Poor Rick Santorum.
He ll just have settle for being number one on Google for all the wrong reasons.Featured image via Wikimedia