Donald Trump has figured out that the more offensive, controversial and vulgar he is, the more conservative voters are going to love him.
He s carried that tone throughout his entire campaign, and has only seemed to rise in the polls.
Now, he s focusing on offending individual Republican voters to win their approval.During a Today Show town hall event on Thursday morning, undecided Republican voter Jamie Eckman asked The Donald a question that would impact many Americans: would he deport the undocumented parents of a relative that was a natural-born citizen relative?
Eckman asked: My relative is a natural-born American in the military, deployed in Oman.
His father and stepmother are undocumented citizens here in the undocumented people here in the United States for the last 25 years without any way of adjusting their status.
If you re president, what will you do for those members that are the fabric of our country, that have been here for 25 years undocumented?
Won t they be deported?
Once again, Trump nailed his formula of being an absolute a**hole and despicable human being.
After taking a few moments to insult his rival, Canadian-born Ted Cruz, Trump returned to the matter at hand and answered Eckman s question with something she probably didn t want to hear: Yes, your loved ones are still getting deported.
Trump said: When you say natural-born citizens, that s interesting.
I assume you were born here.
Why do you mention that?
Because you know who always says that?
Ted Cruz.
He was born in Canada and lived there for four years.
He says, I m a natural-born citizen when, actually he was born in Canada.
But, you know what?
He has no path right now.. Eckman quickly clarified that she wasn t on team Cruz before Trump continued to tell Eckman she could kiss her family goodbye if he became the next President.
They ve been here how many years?
We re going to do something.
For people that have been look, we re either going to have a country or we re not going to have a country.
But many people are very fine people.
and I m sure these are very, very fine people.
They re going to go, and we re going to create a path where we can get them into this country legally, okay?
But it has to be done legally.
Taken aback that she didn t get the answer she was looking for, Eckman asked the Republican front runner, You will deport them first, right?
Trump responded: They re going to go, and then come back and come back legally.
We have wonderful people.
It s too tough to say you ll never come back again.
They re coming back, but they re coming back into our country legally.
So important.
And to prove just how disgusting and heartless he is, Trump added, Now that might not be the perfect answer for you, but am I going to get your vote?
Eckman didn t answer.You can watch Trump break this Republican voter s heart below:Despite all of the backlash he s faced, Trump continues to cling to his racist, intolerant immigration stance.
It seems that unless Eckman wants to be packing her relatives bags in November, she d better vote for Hillary Clinton.
But unfortunately, because Republicans just aren t very bright, Trump might still get her vote.
Featured image via screenshots