Fox News is desperate to sabotage Hillary Clinton s campaign so they are continuing to launch outrageous lies about her health.Last week, Sean Hannity pushed an absurd claim that Hillary suffered a seizure on camera because she playfully acted like a bobble head doll while being pulled in different directions by different speakers.
When the joke was over she then spoke and smiled, two things that people definitely do not do while having a seizure.As Newsweek s Kurt Eichenwald explained to Hannity earlier this week, People do not smile during a seizure while standing upright and then immediately launch into a coherent sentence.
There s no smiling because, if for some reason the person experiencing the seizure has not collapsed to the ground in unconsciousness, the moment the body begins to move uncontrollably is terrifying.
After a seizure, someone does not instantly jump back into a conversation, making jokes.
Eichenwald should know.
He has epilepsy.But Fox & Friends has picked up where Hannity left off and made a brand new claim on Thursday in an effort to cast doubt on the health of Hillary s mind.Steve Doocy, who was named in Gretchen Carlson s sexual harassment lawsuit against Roger Ailes, suggested that Hillary Clinton has brain damage because she wears prism eyeglasses.
Is that the fact that when we saw Hillary Clinton wearing those prism glasses, a sign of brain damage and other things, and he s worried about the care she s getting so far, Doocy said in reference to Dr. Drew Pinsky allegedly expressing concern for Hillary s health.Kilmeade then suggested that Clinton s glasses are connected to Benghazi, because conservatives will never stop talking about that.
And if you want to or remember, when she was wearing those glasses, remember when she made those famous line to Senator Ron Johnson, What difference at this point does it make, that s when she had those glasses on.
Here s the video via Media Matters.This kind of speculation is why Fox should drop the News part of their name.Just because Hillary Clinton is wearing prism glasses it does not mean that she has brain damage.
It means she has eye problems like 75 percent of Americans do.Hillary wears Fresnel prism glasses to correct double vision resulting from a concussion she sustained in 2012 after she fainted and fell due to dehydration.This in no way disqualifies her from being president.
She merely has a vision issue that needs correcting.And if wearing glasses is a sign of brain damage perhaps Fox should have performed a quick search on Google for Donald Trump.
Because they would have found this.So does that mean Trump has brain damage?
I mean, that would definitely explain Trump s crazy behavior over the last year.Featured image via Twitter