You know what might make the recent scandal surrounding Donald Trump s support from white supremacists just a bit worse?
Things might get bad if his son offered to pay to ship black people out of the United States.
In fact, such a move would be so monumentally stupid that Oh!
It happened, didn t it?On Fox and Friends, Donald Trump Jr. and brother Eric Trump showed up to discuss the Super Tuesday primaries and, of course, the attacks against The Donald for minor issues like wanting to shove all Muslims into concentration camps and ban them from entering the United States, as well as his support from white supremacist groups.Recently, Trump responded to an endorsement from former Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke by adamantly refusing to denounce Duke or any White Power Rangers who have stepped up to declare that he is the best thing to happen to this country since slavery.
Trump, who regularly retweets white supremacists and their propaganda, is immensely popular among white nationalist groups, who actively use him as a recruitment tool and even call voters to encourage them to support the man they view as the new Fuhrer.
You know, it s sad to see, Eric Trump said of the attacks on his father, which he considers trivial in light of how awesome his racist father is.
We love our father.
He s an amazing guy he would do such an unbelievable job for this country.
He s an amazing businessman, he s an amazing negotiator.
He s funding himself, right?
But when Fox News played the Trump brothers clips of numerous African-Americans, including Whoopi Goldberg and Al Sharpton, saying they will leave the United States if Trump was elected, Trump Jr. decided that the best way to help his father mitigate the damage done by his white supremacist friends would be to offer to pay:Eric Trump said that criticism from African-Americans might be his father s greatest endorsement ever.
Trump Jr. added that criticism from minority groups is a positive as far as Trump is concerned, especially considering his base: Those are endorsements for Trump.
That s the thing when you have the establishment people in the debates, and they stack the debates with a thousand people that are all booing, those are votes for us.
Because the people in the audience watching at home are like, Wait a minute he s saying what I m thinking.
I love that.
That s as good an endorsement as we could possibly get.
Sadly, he s right any criticism from African-Americans, Muslims, Hispanics, women, non-Christians, and other groups Trump considers Untermensch is almost certain to be viewed as a positive by his racist, cenophobic, Christofascist, hateful supporters.Watch Trump Jr. offer to send black people out of the country below:Featured image via screengrab