By generous accounts Trump is facing a scandal as inflammatory as Watergate.
By less than generous accounts, Trump is facing a scandal even more inflammatory than Watergate.
So what is he doing to address it?
Apparently, clamping his hands over his ears, squeezing his eyes closed tight and wishing it was November 9, 2016 again.In what may go down as one of the saddest moments in West Wing history, Trump s aides were spotted shuffling in a giant framed picture of you guessed it the election map.
Adding even more idiocy to the moment, the map is helpfully marked 2016 Presidential Election Results.
Spotted: A map to be hung somewhere in the West Wing pic.twitter.com/TpPPDyNFtE Trey Yingst (@TreyYingst) May 11, 2017It was a blown up version of the same election map that Trump has been carrying around with him as he goes about his days.
He is so proud of the election map that he even printed out extra copies to give to several reporters who sat down with him in the Oval Office.here's a pic from reuters of Trump with the electoral maps he showed to reporters yesterday pic.twitter.com/1X3edpeJDQ Gideon Resnick (@GideonResnick) April 28, 2017Trump reportedly loves his maps so much that he begged the Washington Post run the map on the front page of its newspaper.
(They said no.
)The framed picture which will now hang somewhere in the West Wing (along historic portraits of former presidents and paintings commissioned from world-famous painters) seems to be Trump s answer to the press for not doing his bidding: If you won t run the map in your newspapers, I ll just hang it up in the White House!Trump, angry, bitter, and increasingly beleaguered by self-created scandals, has retreated further and further into his ego-friendly safe space.
The fact that his map which reflects the election results by county doesn t show what he thinks it shows only makes his desperation more pathetic.
Trump see s a lot of red, literally explains to reporter that it represents us, and thinks it shows that people like him.
Instead, the map s colors are misleading.
Trump may have won a lot of counties but the ones he won are mostly empty, and trees don t vote.
The blue spots represent the biggest areas of human population in the country, including Trump s hometown of New York City, and they all voted against him.
That s why he lost by three million votes.Featured image via Twitter