The heartwarming story below will reassure you that we can all come together to help each other no matter what.ABC News reports:Like many Floridians racing to buy food and supplies before the arrival of Hurricane Irma, Pam Brekke found herself miles from home today, desperately hoping to score a generator.According to ABC affiliate WFTV-TV, Brekke, a Sanford, Florida, resident, had spent days waiting for empty shelves to be restocked and searching for a generator.She said today that she d traveled more than 30 miles to Orlando to a Lowe s Home Improvement store that had received a surprise shipment of a little more than 200 generators.Within two hours, however, the generators were sold out and Brekke, who had been next in line, was empty-handed.. .
.
.
A heartbroken Brekke then began to cry.
Ramon Santiago, who had gotten one of the generators but had not purchased it yet, noticed and insisted that she take his.
She needs the generator, Santiago told WFTV-TV.
It s OK. Brekke shared with Santiago that it was her ailing father who needed the generator to power his oxygen supply.
The story doesn t stop there.
When Lowe s got more generators, the first person they called was Santiago.
He received a free generator in response to his generous, selfless act.WBAL reports:Enter Ramon Santiago of Orlando.He also saw Brekke crying and insisted that she take the generator he d carted but had not yet bought.
Brekke shared that she d wanted the generator not for herself but actually for her ailing father who needed it to power his oxygen supply.
I m worried about this storm, she told WFTV.The two embraced and went their separate ways but their story a random act of kindness in the middle of chaos and stress before a deadly storm made the rounds not only on social media, but also at Lowe s.When a new generator became available later that day, the store manager told WFTV that she immediately thought of Santiago.
On Friday, Santiago returned to Lowe s with WFTV to get his own generator for free from the store.
I wanted to make sure he received it because he definitely deserved it, manager Melissa Rodriguez told WFTV.
He s the hero of the day.
AMERICANS RISE ABOVE THE DIVISION THE PRESS PORTRAYS INCREDIBLY HEARTWARMING!