President Trump delivered a speech on national security that ll knock your socks off.
He plans on putting America first: America is in the game and America is going to win.
His strategy involves four basic principles: protecting the homeland by restricting immigration, pressuring trading partners, building up the military and otherwise increasing U.S. influence globally.What s not to love about that?
MAGA!Via Fox News: President Trump on Monday unveiled a national security strategy that enshrines his America First approach into U.S. policy, stressing American strength and economic security and putting rivals like China and Russia on notice.
America is in the game and America is going to win, Trump said, making clear that the United States will stand up for itself even if that means acting unilaterally or alienating others on issues such as trade, climate change and immigration.In a 20-minute speech, Trump said the U.S. faces an extraordinarily dangerous world and one of his goals is to make sure the U.S. is leading again on the world stage.
America is coming back, and America is coming back strong, he said.Trump, who released his 68-page national security strategy ahead of his speech, said he is making good on campaign pledges that he promised would revitalize the American economy, rebuild our military, defend our borders, protect our sovereignty and advance our values.
Trump s national security strategy, a document mandated by Congress, is based on four principles: protecting the homeland by restricting immigration, pressuring trading partners, building up the military and otherwise increasing U.S. influence globally.Trump also took on the rise in North Korea s nuclear aggression and painted China and Russia as U.S. rivals despite his own relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, which included two telephone calls last week.Bryan Llenas has the rogue regime s reaction.
China and Russia challenge American power, influence, and interests, attempting to erode American security and prosperity, the strategy document says.
They are determined to make economies less free and less fair, to grow their militaries, and to control information and data to repress their societies and expand their influence.
The strategy accuses the two nations of developing advanced weapons and capabilities that could threaten our critical infrastructure and our command and control architecture.
While Trump in his address did not mention Russia meddling in U.S. elections, the written strategy also calls out Moscow for using information tools in an attempt to undermine the legitimacy of democracies and says adversaries like Russia target media, political processes, financial networks and personal data.
In a shift from the last administration, Trump s strategy also refers to the jihadist terror threat and Islamist terror groups.
We will pursue threats to their source, so that jihadist terrorists are stopped before they ever reach our borders, it says.Further, the strategy backs off naming climate change as a major threat.
The last such strategy document, prepared by then-President Barack Obama in 2015, declared climate change an urgent and growing threat to our national security.