There should be no doubt that racism is very much at least part of what is fueling Donald Trump s presidential campaign.
Tim Wise, a major figure in the study of racism, is more than qualified to dissect and explain how Trump is exploiting racism in the United States to further his political ambitions.That s exactly what Wise did during an appearance on CNN s Reliable Sources on Sunday.
The show s host Brian Stelter began the segment by mentioning the abundance of analysis on Trump s exploitation of economic anxiety.
Stelter questioned why there has been so much talk about this economic anxiety and so little about racial anxiety.Wise quickly laid it out that economic anxiety is not the only reason Trump is the only one left in the GOP clown car.
If the only reason for Trump s support was economic anxiety then people of color should be flocking to Trump.
Because black folks, for instance, are twice as likely to be out of work as white folks, three times as likely to be poor, have 1/15 the net worth, nine years less life expectancy in large part due to economic inequality.
Wise just shut down a year s worth of analysts who have desperately tried to shut down Trump s use of the racism with an economics answer.Wise goes on to explain that there are many similarities between what Trump says and what southerners say when questioned about the Civil War.
Invariably many will make the ridiculous claim that the war was not about slavery but about state s rights.This is an apt comparison.
Since the GOP s creation of the southern strategy, racism has been a key component of the Republican Party s ideology.
That racism has come in the polite form.
Rather than call for the end of the Voting Rights Act because Republicans want to make it harder for racial minorities to vote, they say it is a matter of state s rights.
One of the biggest examples of this is the semi-recent revelation that the GOP s economic policy agenda for the past 40 plus years has been nothing more than a scheme to be incredibly racist without appearing to do so.You can watch the segment below in full.Featured image from video screenshot