During a panel discussion on Real Time with Bill Maher that aired Friday night, Bill Maher and his panel of guests discussed the no bill, no break sit-in that occurred this week in the House of Representatives.
Democrats staged a sit-in on the House floor, where they demanded that a bill that would prevent persons on the no-fly list from being able to purchase firearms in the United States.One of Maher s guests, Nightly Show host Larry Willmore, was quick to point out that the bill is actually quite problematic.
It was pointed out that despite the narrative being pushed about preventing terrorist suspects from buying handguns, it isn t actually the no-fly list that the legislation addresses.
The no-fly list is actually a subsection of a much larger list called the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment, which includes more than 1,00,000 people s names.
One of the people on the list, as Wilmore points out, is actually sit-in leader Representative Jon Lewis himself.It is also pointed out that the majority of people on the list are people of color who have been put on the list without ever having been convicted of a crime to land them on that list.
It s actually quite hard to find out if you are on the list and there is no legal procedure to have yourself removed from the list.The panel eventually came to a general consensus that it is ridiculous that a person who is considered a terror suspect should be able to purchase a gun.
That being said, the watch list that is being used in the bill (that honestly never had a chance to go anywhere) has a lot of problems as well.What the left needs to keep in mind is that Democrats knew that the GOP would do everything to obstruct this bill, despite it being legislation that Republicans would have jumped on, if we were still living under a George W. Bush administration.
What the Democrats involved in the sit-in were looking for was a talking point in the general election.
They got it.
Republicans put obstructionism above all else.
They turned down a watch list that was partly created during a far-right political administration, is rooted in racist mentalities, and at least in name serves to ramp up the military state.
If the GOP were going introduce legislation to increase gun regulations, this is what it would look like.You can watch the segment below in full.Featured image from video screenshot