Brandon Stanton, the world-renowned photographer behind the brilliant Humans of New York Facebook page, usually stays out of politics but this particular election has him all riled up thanks to Republican front runner Donald Trump.Knowing full well that the rise of the business mogul could be the absolute downfall of America, Stanton decided that he could no longer stay silent and penned an open letter to Trump on Monday.
The photographer shot to fame six years ago by photographing people on the streets, documenting and sharing a small piece of their lives with the public.
Since then, his popularity has grown tremendously and Stanton has photographed and interviewed notable figures such as President Barack Obama and Syrian refugees using his tremendous influence to make a statement.
Stanton s letter to Trump is no different, but carries an entirely different tone as the photographer has labeled the offensive candidate hateful and racist.
First admitting that he was hesitant to become involved in the election, Stanton explained why he was choosing to speak out against the front runner now: I try my hardest not to be political.
I ve refused to interview several of your fellow candidates.
But I realize now that there is no correct time to oppose violence and prejudice.
Because along with millions of Americans, I ve come to realize that opposing you is no longer a political decision.
It is a moral one.
In the letter, Trump was also called out for the racism and violence that he encourages not only in his Twitter rants, speeches and interviews, but at his rallies as well.
I ve watched you retweet racist images.
I ve watched you retweet racist lies.
I ve watched you take 48 hours to disavow white supremacy.
I ve watched you joyfully encourage violence, and promise to pay the legal fees of those who commit violence on your behalf.
Stanton also spoke about the people he s gotten to interview around the world such as Muslims in Iran, Iraq, and Pakistan, and Syrian and Iraqi refugees the very people that Trump warns his supporters about.
Stanton blasts the GOPer for comparing refugees to snakes , claiming that Islam hates us and gleefully tell stories of executing Muslims with bullets dipped in pig blood.
The photographer railed against Trump s hateful rhetoric and lies: Over the last two years I have conducted extensive interviews with hundreds of Muslims, chosen at random, on the streets of Iran, Iraq, and Pakistan.
I ve also interviewed hundreds of Syrian and Iraqi refugees across seven different countries.And I can confirm the hateful one is you.
Stanton ends his scathing letter by saying that even if Trump changed his tone, he will never be able to truly rebrand himself as presidential or a unifier because he s not.
Stanton wrote: Though your words will no doubt change over the next few months, you will always remain who you are.
You are a man who has encouraged prejudice and violence in the pursuit of personal power.
The post has now been shared over 590,000 times, and you can read it in full below:HONYStanton s message is such a powerful one, and a reminder of what Trump truly stands for.
He s a man that cannot change, and supporting him is one of the most dangerous things an American can do to their country.
Featured image via Tumblr and Gage Skidmore