Admitting Somalis who d been settled for years in Pakistan like the Ohio State jihadi and his family is only one of them.
Another refugee absurdity was revealed recently the Obama administration has agreed to admit illegal aliens intercepted at sea by Australia and held in camps outside that country, on two Pacific islands.The number of people said to be affected is reported to range from 1,600 to nearly 2,500; my colleague Nayla Rush has an overview here.
These are people Australia has decided do not warrant refugee status (or what our law would consider asylum).
Therefore they have no right to move to Australia.
But for a variety of reasons, Australia cannot, or does not want to, send them back, and the refugees won t accept offers of resettlement in New Guinea or Cambodia because they re holding out for a First World country.
What s more, their presence in those Australian-run camps on the islands of Nauru and Manus (the latter owned by Papua New Guinea) has become a political headache.
Most are from Iran, with smaller numbers from Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia, and elsewhere.I can see why Australia would want this deal; it costs Oz taxpayers $2 billion to run the two island detention facilities and closing them down would rid the government of the headache.
But if Australia doesn t consider them refugees, why should we take them?It appears we re doing this as a favor to Australia; some speculate it s a quid pro quo for Australia s taking some U.S.-bound illegals in camps in Costa Rica, though how that s comparable isn t clear, and Australia has denied any such bargain.
The chairman of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, Bob Goodlatte and Chuck Grassley, also want to know why we re doing this, and they wrote to the secretaries of State and Homeland Security asking for details on the secret agreement to bring the illegal aliens here.
When Capitol Hill staffers asked the State Department how many such refugees would be resettled here under the secret deal, they were told the number was classified.
Read more at: NRO