Maybe it s the commonality they share with Trump, considering the media and never Trumpers have painted him as an outcast or an outsider.
Whatever their reasons are, indications are that conservative Amish Americans are getting behind Donald Trump.
And in some swing states where every vote will count, this is one group Crooked Hillary won t likely be able to win over The Amish may not watch TV and rarely vote but could they be persuaded to vote Republican in this year s US elections?
Ben Walters is the Amish Pact fund raising officer, and thinks that Donald Trump s conservative values could appeal to this community.The Amish community came out in big numbers to attend Trump s rally yesterday in PA:AMISH COME OUT FOR TRUMP IN PA. GOD BLESS TRUMP!!!
pic.twitter.com/hAAypaL6PV TRUMP MY PRESIDENT (@AngelSt35124353) October 2, 2016 Trump rally in Pennsylvania's Amish country:#AmishForTrump #MakeAmericaGreatAgain pic.twitter.com/YfrFcKe5uU Trump 4 America (@america_trump) October 2, 2016Though they travel at the pace of a horse and buggy, the Amish are spreading out across the nation more rapidly than most other religious communities.A new Amish settlement is founded in the United States nearly once a month, according to a new census, which also found that more than 60 percent of all existing Amish communities sprang up after 1990.
The Amish are one of the fastest-growing religious groups in North America, Ohio State researcher Joseph Donnermeyer, who led the census project, said in a statement.
They re doubling their population about every 21 to 22 years, primarily because they produce large families and the vast majority of daughters and sons remain in the community as adults baptized into the faith, starting their own families and sustaining their religious beliefs and practices.
Swing states like Ohio, which has the largest Amish population at 60,233, and, Pennsylvania a close second, with 59,078 Amish residents could make all the difference in a close race in those states.
Indiana has 44,831 Amish citizens, according to Ohio State.
New York where 15 new settlements have been established since 2010 has seen the greatest recent growth in Amish population of any state.
Via: Live ScienceHere s why they re getting behind Donald Trump:Via: BBC