Is this not the craziest thing ever?
No wonder California is broke!
This sounds so much like Agenda 21 everyone s on the dole!Palo Alto is seeking housing solutions for residents who are not among the Silicon Valley region s super-rich, but who also earn more than the threshhold to qualify for affordable housing programs.The city council has voted to study a housing proposal that would essentially subsidize new housing for what qualifies as middle-class nowadays, families making from $150,000 to $250,000 a year.The plan would focus on building smaller, downtown units for people who live near transit and don t own cars, along with mixed-use retail and residential developments.Sky-rocketing housing prices in Palo Alto have left some in limbo; with teachers, firefighters and other government workers not earning enough to afford cost of living.Randy Bean says while she still loves her Palo Alto neighborhood, she can t help but notice the changes that are making it unrecognizable.
I just find it kind of sad that we are reducing ourselves to this small profile of young, rich, mostly white, mostly tech.
It s not the community that I moved into 33 years ago, Bean said.And now, as a documentary film producer, she says she can t afford to stay here.Some of the small two-bedroom, one-bath homes on her block are worth between $1.5 and $2 million as teardowns.
That s just what the dirt is worth.
Prices have just gone through the roof, making it unaffordable for middle-class people, your firefighters, your teachers, and, frankly, some of your doctors, Palo Alto Vice Mayor Greg Scharff said.Scharff worries that losing middle-class workers will hurt the city.
What the council is proposing is that we work together to fund and subsidize, what is basically middle-class housing; which, traditionally, has not been subsidized, Scharff said.Bean can hardly believe it.
We have people struggling to make it at a quarter-million dollars a year, Bean said.
That s a terrible thing.
Read more: KCBS