You know what s even more stupid than blaming Melania Trump s plagiarism on My Little Pony?
Claiming that whites are the superior race.
What s even worse than that?
Doing it again.On Monday, Iowa Rep. Steve King replaced his dog whistle with a microphone and openly declared that whites are the superior race.
Responding to criticism that the Republican National Convention is filled with loud, unhappy, dissatisfied white people during an appearance on MSNBC, King snapped: This whole business does get a little tired.
I would ask you to go back through history and figure out where are these contributions that have been made by these other categories of people that you are talking about, where did any other subgroup of people contribute more to civilization?
Than white people?
Chris Hayes asked.
Than than western civilization itself that s rooted in western Europe, eastern Europe and the United States of America, and every place where Christianity settled the world, King replied after realizing that he had actually uttered the words he was thinking.
That s all of western civilization.
On Tuesday, King clarified his remarks, explaining that while whites are the superior race, people of other races have also made contributions to civilization.
It s pretty close [to what I said].
What I really said was Western civilization and when you describe Western civilization that can mean much of Western civilization happens to be Caucasians.
But we should not apologize for our culture or our civilization, King told ABC News.
The contributions that were made by Western civilization itself, and by Americans, by Americans of all races stand far above the rest of the world.
The Western civilization and the American civilization are a superior culture.
King says he was responding to, and correcting, political blogger Charlie Pierce but he s happy that he was able to start a dialogue about how awesome white people are: But what we have is people who are trying to parse something, to hyperventilate about that.
I m OK if they do that because it starts the dialogue so we can open up more minds so people can think about what s right for America.
So, there you have it: whites have contributed far more than other races, according to King, but he s now willing to admit that maybe others have done stuff too.Watch King s original remarks below:Featured image via Getty Images/Andrew Burton