Republican Clerk Diane Haslett-Rudiano is living proof that voter fraud exists, but not in the way her party is selling it.
They would have you believe that dead people are voting by the thousands; that entire congressional districts are won by people who moved away decades ago.
You ll hear stories of illegals storming the southern border at great peril to their own lives so they can vote in American elections.
Those stories would be all false.
We know why Republicans want to keep people from voting.
If enough people voted, things would change.Haslett-Rudiano was handed something we don t hear about often enough in these kinds of matters: She was suspended without pay pending an investigation.
The translation to that is that it doesn t look good that whatever this woman was involved in cost thousands of New Yorkers their right to vote.
According to Telesur TV:The board may fire her as soon as Tuesday, and the New York Daily News reported that colleagues said she is being forced out.
Why is it alleged that 125,000 people have been removed from the voter rolls?
Why did 60,000 people receive notices to vote that didn t have the primary date?
Why were people told they were in the wrong polling place time and time again?
New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer told CBS 2.
The next president of the United States could very easily be decided tonight and yet the incompetence of the Board of Elections puts a cloud over these results.
The New York Attorney General said he received over 1,000 voter complaints, compared to 150 complaints in 2012.
Haslett-Rudiano is thought to have skipped a step in a regular protocol of updating the voter list with deaths and changes of address.The error resulted in nearly 8 percent of Brooklyn s registered voters being denied their ballot.She skipped a step.
Oops!
Who gets the shaft?
The registered, disenfranchised voter.
In Brooklyn, they re probably hoping to hit more Democrats.
Eight percent of any population is mind-blowing.
It s a potential game-changer no matter where you go.
The lengths the GOP will go to see to it that people lose interest in the voting process are astounding.
They ll enact voter fraud legislation and pull tactics that have folks remembering voting as some line they used to stand in for no reason.Keep your corporate shills in office, gut education so you can cultivate more Republicans, and hope you don t lose too much in the next crash.
The Republican way.Featured image by Stephanie Keith/Getty Images