It has been 15 years since the World Trade Center Twin Towers fell.
But Republicans and Donald Trump still exploit it for political gain.During Trump s primary run for the Republican nomination, he made a claim that sent journalists into a frenzy of fact-checking.
I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down, Trump said during a rally last November.
And I watched in Jersey City, New Jersey where thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down.
Thousands of people were cheering.
Trump doubled down the next day during an interview with George Stephanopoulos.
It was on television.
I saw it, Trump said.
It was well covered at the time, George.
Now, I know they don t like to talk about it, but it was well covered at the time.
There were people over in New Jersey that were watching it, a heavy Arab population, that were cheering as the buildings came down.
Not good.
But what Trump is claiming never happened.After an exhaustive search, Politifact concluded:This defies basic logic.
If thousands and thousands of people were celebrating the 9/11 attacks on American soil, many people beyond Trump would remember it.
And in the 21st century, there would be video or visual evidence.Instead, all we found were a couple of news articles that described rumors of celebrations that were either debunked or unproven.Trump s recollection of events in New Jersey in the hours after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks flies in the face of all the evidence we could find.
We rate this statement Pants on Fire.And on Friday, New York Rep. Gregory Meeks humiliated Trump for that very claim once again during a panel discussion about Trump s birtherism on CNN.Just like Trump won t admit that he is wrong about his birtherism, Trump has also not apologized for being wrong about Muslims cheering in America on 9/11.After Trump supporter Kayleigh McEnany claimed that Trump has renounced his birther past, Meeks pointed out that Trump himself should man up and publicly do it himself.
Then he should say it.
If he believes it, he should say it.
There s a pattern with Donald Trump.
I m still looking and I m sure that everybody s still looking for those thousands of Muslims that were cheering during 9/11.
That has not taken place.
We heard video where he says he was for the war in Iraq.
He now says he wasn t. There s not any evidence where he was against the war in Iraq.
There is a practice and pattern with Donald Trump, who continues to make noise he knows is completely incorrect, Meeks continued.
He never apologizes about it.
He leaves it out there.
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is a coward and a liar and he is totally unqualified to be president.
The 15th anniversary of 9/11 is on Sunday and you just know that Trump is going to make some outrageous claim in an effort to exploit the tragedy.Featured Image: Alex Wong/Getty Images