A former staffer of Donald Trump s presidential campaign is currently suing the campaign for its disastrous handling (or lack of handling) a deadly situation involving a gun.
This comes just two days after Trump called for Second Amendment people to shoot and kill Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.According to the suit filed yesterday by Vincent Bordini in Mecklenburg County Superior Court in North Carolina, Bordini is suing the campaign for its inaction over a situation in which former N.C. campaign director Earl Phillip produced a pistol, put his right index finger on the trigger, and drove the barrel into Vincent s knee cap while the two men were in Phillip s jeep.The incident happened on February 13, and the complaint reads: Phillip pushed the barrel into Vincent s knee.
The barrel s pressure crinkled Vincent s blue jeans.
Phillip ominously stared sidewise at Vincent while driving the Jeep down the road and the barrel into Vincent.
Vincent froze.
Phillip s gun was loaded and the safety was off.
A bump in the road would likely result in a bullet hole, and worse, in Vincent s knee.
After this incident, Bordini had gone straight to Trump s regional director to report the incident, and that s when the director told Bordini that he d also experienced similar threatening behavior from Phillip.
Desperate for a solution to this terrifying situation, Bordini went even higher up the chain and tried to report the incident to Stuart Jolly, Trump s national field director.
Despite all of the evidence against Phillip, nothing happened.
Still determined to be heard, Bordini notified Trump s then-campaign manager Corey Lewandowski about this incident.
Once again, no action was taken by the Trump campaign and Phillip continued to work on the campaign.
Bordini decided to have faith that the matter would be straightened out with time.
According to the suit, Bordini was a passionate Donald J. Trump supporter.
He decided that putting his head down and soldiering on was the best thing he could do for Mr. Trump.
He had faith the Trump campaign would handle the situation internally.
But once again nothing came of Bordini s complaints and less than a month later, Bordini resigned on March 12.
Bordini is suing for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress and negligent infliction of emotional distress in the suit.You can read the court document below:Featured image via Richard Ellis / Getty Images