Although most of America did not want Donald Trump to be the country s next President, many of us were holding on to hope that we might see an improved version of what we witnessed during the former reality TV star s presidential campaign.
Unfortunately, Trump and his team are proving to be worse than we thought, and they re only churning out more fear mongering and lies during his first week in office.New White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has continuously been backing up Trump s voter fraud claims since starting his new position.
Trump has been trying to convince America that millions of illegal immigrants voted in the 2016 election, and Spicer has doubled down on those comments recently.
Fortunately, the media has been on top of it, obviously frustrated at the lack of transparency from the new President.
As Spicer lied his ass off on national television, MSNBC s Katy Tur fact-checked him in real time, and it was pretty amazing.
Despite having zero actual evidence that voter fraud occurred, Spicer said: I think there s been studies that came from Pew in 2008 that showed fourteen percent of people who voted were not citizens.
There are other studies that have been presented to him.
It s a belief he maintains The President does believe that, I think he s stated that before, and stated his concern of voter fraud and people voting illegally during the campaign and continues to maintain that belief based on studies and evidence people have brought to him.
Here s what Tur said as she fact-checked Spicer on air: We want to do a little bit of fact checking on that statement because the White House now is referring to the same research that the campaign had referred to, and the transition had referred to.
One was a Washington Post commissioned study which the Washington Post itself debunked, and the other one was a Pew study from 2012, which is actually from 2008, which said that approximately 24 million one in every eight people are on voter registrations in the United States that no longer valid and they are significantly inaccurate.
Listing people who had died in the past, obviously, on the voter rolls.
It doesn t mention anything about undocumented immigrants, so their basis of evidence isn t quite correct at all.
You can watch that brilliant moment below:Here s @KatyTurNBC with an instant fact-check after Spicer said Trump believes millions voted illegally based on studies and evidence pic.twitter.com/Eb10dxtmqd Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) January 24, 2017MSNBC is far from the only network to prove Trump wrong.
CNN, the media outlet that Trump has dubbed fake news, ran a headline that said, Trump believes millions voted illegally, WH says but provides no proof .Hopefully, we re going to see more real-time fact checking from the media, because Trump and his team are the most dishonest administration we ve ever seen.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images