When you think of roofs and AR-15s, a great marketing campaign might not be the first thing to come to mind, but a roofing company in Colorado is offering the guns to anyone who buys a new roof.Weatherproof Roofing is just a few miles from the scenes of two of the nation s most notorious mass shootings: the Aurora shooting at a Batman movie and the Columbine High School shooting, which seemed to start our epidemic of mass shootings.
AR-15s are a common choice for mass shooters, including the Orlando shooter, who killed 49 people, making it the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.
So, somehow, James Webb, the owner of the roofing company, thought his customers would love to get their hands on a free killing machine.
We are the only roofing company in the country that is offering this we figured we take a stand on what we believe, Webb said.
We help people protect the outside, and now we empower people to protect the inside, Webb said.Source: ABC7 ChicagoHere s the video:Yes, the Supreme Court has ruled that the Second Amendment means people can own guns, lots of guns if they want, but AR-15s are particularly deadly and basically unnecessary, unless you plan on heading to war.AR-15s were once banned in this country, but after the assault weapons ban expired in 2004, they became even easier to obtain than handguns.
Some states have regulated assault weapons, such as the AR-15, but Colorado, while liberal in some areas, loves their guns and hates their gun laws.
Only the city of Denver bans assault weapons.Image via Think ProgressThe bottom line, though, is that while AR-15s have benefitted from an incredible marketing campaign, including one that tries to redefine masculinity (apparently for those who are not sure of their masculinity), it s a military style weapon and there s almost no practical use.
For hunting, it could blow the prey to bits and for self defense, it could blow a house to bits.
Of course, a good way for a roofing company to get repeat business is to give people toys that will blow holes through the new roof.
As for the people who don t want AR-15s, Webb invites them to get their roofs elsewhere.Featured image via video screen capture.