Child actor Corey Feldman appeared on The View in 2013 to talk about his book that exposed some of the richest and most powerful people in the business [Hollywood], who are pedophiles that prey on young actors.
Corey s brave admission of his experiences in Hollywood should have been treated as a public service announcement for parents who had child actors working in Hollywood, as he was giving them a heads up to take the extra steps to protect them.
Instead, he was shamed Feldman appeared in a 2103 episode of The View where Barbara Walters and Star Jones went out of their way to discredit and shut him up.
I m saying there are people that were the people that did this to both me and Corey [Haim] that are still working.
They re still out there, and that are some of the richest most powerful people in this business.
Walters tried to interupt, but Feldman continued, And they do not want me saying what I am saying right now.
Walters asked Feldman, Are you saying they are pedophiles and that they are still in this business?
Feldman replied, Yes.
Feldman went on to say, They don t want me here right now.
They want me dead!
Star Jones quickly jumped in to try to shut Feldman up so he doesn t scare parents who want their kids in the industry.Feldman clarified, that he s just warning parents to be careful what you wish for.
Don t go into it with naivety.
Instead of considering Feldman s warning, that may be of interest to parents who have children in the industry, Walters interrupted him to admonish him, You re damaging an entire industry!
Feldman apologized, I m sorry.
After several years of being shamed by his peers and high-profile women in the industry like Barbara Walters, child actor Corey Feldman may finally find someone who will finally take him seriously, now that Harvey Weinstein has been exposed.Cernovich The recent exposure of serial sexual predator and Hollywood Democrat kingpin Harvey Weinstein raises, even more, questions than it answers.In a now famous photo, Weinstein can be seen grabbing young actress Emma Watson in a compromising position.While the public controversy currently centers around Weinstein s sexual abuse of power over young women, the question remains how young were Weinstein s victims?Former child actor Corey Feldman has publicly stated that I was molested and passed around, while discussing how in Hollywood adult males in the industry would pass young stars back and forth to each other.
Feldman revealed that his co-star Corey Haim was raped at 11-years-old.Actor Elijah Wood confirmed Feldman s claims in May 2016, describing Hollywood as a den of vipers in an interview, and saying If you can imagine it, it s probably happened.
Wood said he was protected from abuse by his mother, who didn t let him go to Hollywood parties, but he said other young child actors were regularly preyed upon by those in power.Wood also compared Hollywood s sexual predators with known pedophile and English TV personality Jimmy Savile.
You all grew up with Savile, Wood said.
Jesus, it must have been devastating.
Clearly something major was going on in Hollywood.
It was all organized.
X-Men director Bryan Singer is among those publicly accused of sexual abuse of young boys in Hollywood.