It s no secret that there is little love lost between President Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, but this is ridiculous.Somehow unsatisfied by his pathetic use of an unprecedented speech delivered to Congress at the behest of the Republican Party in an attempt derail sensitive Iranian nuclear negotiations, Netanyahu has found a new low.
Out of the blue, and with no official statement to the White House, Netanyahu cancelled a trip to Washington and a meeting with the president.
The Pope met with the President.
The Denver Broncos met with the President.
A 106-year-old lady danced with the President.
But Netanyahu, a supposed American ally in the Middle East will snub him in what is likely the pair s last opportunity to meet face-to-face.Netanyahu didn t even attempt to hide his contempt for Obama, either.
Rather than do the respectable thing and give the White House a heads up, the president and his staff learned of Netanyahu s snub from media outlets like CNN.The White House said Israel had proposed two dates for a meeting between the leaders and the U.S. had offered to meet on one of those days.
We were looking forward to hosting the bilateral meeting, said Ned Price, a spokesman for the White House s National Security Council.
We were surprised to first learn via media reports that the prime minister, rather than accept our invitation, opted to cancel his visit.
Classy.According to Israeli news networks, insiders in the Netanyahu administration told reporters that he was unwilling to meet with Obama.
However, the Israeli government publicly disputed those reports.Ironically, Netanyahu s own defense for cancelling was so that he did not sway the upcoming U.S. election something he didn t mind doing in the past.
For instance, Netanyahu spoke with Obama on Super Tuesday in 2012.
He didn t seem concerned that his actions would throw a wrench in the Democratic process or perhaps more accurately, he rather hoped it would.
And two years later during the mid-term elections, his love for Republicans was so obvious, that it was discussed with casual openness in Israel.
Here, for example, is a typical report from the time.It s no secret that Netanyahu and his aides are praying for control of the U.S. Senate to fall to the Republicans, who already hold the majority of the House of Representatives.
Based on recent U.S. polls, there s a fairly good chance those prayers will be answered.
However, Netanyahu won t break open any champagne prematurely.
He did that two years ago, before the presidential elections, only to see his favored candidate, Mitt Romney, lose to incumbent President Barack Obama.Unfortunately for the prime minister, he got his wish and still lost the battle.
They really tried, but Republicans were unable to stop the Iranian nuclear agreement even after skirting America s treason laws to try to elbow their way in.It seems apparent that the Israeli Prime Minister is still livid over the fact that Obama went ahead with the Iranian nuclear disarmament instead of listening to his calls for war.
The two world leaders have never exactly seen eye-to-eye on the issue of Iran or anything else.
Netanyahu, a right-wing hardliner, has resented Obama s calls for peace, including chastising Israel for its policies towards Palestinians.
The fact that the United States still provides financial and military support to Israel to the tune of billions of dollars a year doesn t seem to calm him down, either.So rather than swallow his pride, Netanyahu has resorted to shameful displays of pettiness.
What that means for the future of U.S.-Israel relations will be better known after the election.Featured image via Flickr