LGBT Crowd Eyes Preschool Children.
That s the vile headline on a story republished on Fox News from capital bigot Laura Ingraham s site, Lifezette.
The headline was crafted specifically to make people recoil in horror due to the misbegotten idea that the LGBT community is all about pushing the homosexual agenda onto our children.
Below is a screen capture of the story sitting on Fox News website, for all to see:The story itself almost waxes poetic on the dangers of LGBT indoctrination, attacking a series of online videos called Queer Kids Stuff.
That series intended to help parents talk to their children about the LGBT community in a way that s easy for them to understand.
Bigoted, homophobic conservatives, however, see this as predatory, claiming that the only way the movement wins is by going after ever-younger groups of children.The videos haven t made their way into preschools yet, but that s exactly what Sean Ryan, the communications director of Mass Resistance, an alleged pro-family group, is afraid of: It is easily conceivable that videos such as these will be sanctioned eventually by local school boards and implemented in preschool and prekindergarten classes.Activists are trying to force these topics on younger and younger children because that is the only way their movement wins.Rational adults don t buy into the so-called Queer Theory or transgenderism.
Unfortunately, children are a soft target for homosexual activists as they are malleable and still learning about the world.
We have to wonder who these rational adults are, and whether he even knows the definition of rational, since he clearly isn t. Chances are he means narrow-minded, extremist fanatics like himself, who think that the LGBT community needs to go back into the closet and stay there, so we can all go back to pretending they don t exist, like we used to.
Ryan even alluded to that in the story: There was once a time when it was unthinkable to even mention the topic of homosexuality in a school setting.
Now, there are homosexual, bisexual [and] transgender lesson plans for kids as young as kindergarten.
He believes that the reason today s parents might support something he views as gross is because they, themselves, were indoctrinated and don t even realize it.
There s no way of convincing someone this close-minded and black-hearted that nobody was brainwashed, except, perhaps, them.The New Civil Rights Movement said that Fox News should change the headline.
They should, but they won t, because it says exactly what they want to say.
It s all about the children, we swear!
the haters scream.
It s not, and saying that the LGBT community is after our children is a dangerous lie and a half.Featured image by Scott Olson/Getty Images and Fox News website