Alleged president Donald Trump met with Japanese Prime Minister Shinz Abe and the former reality show star showed the world what an amateur he is.
Welcome to the very famous White House, Trump told Abe in his opening statement during the joint press conference.
Abe was very polite and humble during the exchange.
Trump told Abe that since the inauguration he s learned tremendous things.
Trump said that includes information about threats to national security.
Trump said that that information is something that you could only learn, frankly, if you were in a certain position namely, president.
Polito reports that Trump also said at the end of the press conference that they re good friends but if that changes he ll let you (reporters) know.
Trump said he and Abe have already developed a great friendship, citing their past meeting inside Trump Tower and their interaction earlier Friday.
When I greeted him today at the car, I was saying I shook hands, but I grabbed him and hugged him because that s the way we feel, Trump said.
We have a very, very good bond.
Very, very good chemistry.
I ll let you know if it changes, but I don t think it will.
The two shook hands, then the Prime Minister turned his head to the side with a pained look on his face.
Abe did a semi-eyeroll before getting up from the chair.Abe s facial expression is ?
pic.twitter.com/etYaiNH6vp Brenna Williams (@brennawilliams) February 10, 2017We re sure Abe has seen Trump s Twitter timeline where just this morning he slammed the federal appeal court s ruling against his controversial travel ban on seven predominantly Muslim countries.
Trump should have welcomed Abe to the infamous White House instead.
Trump is just three weeks into the job and his administration is plagued with scandals.
Michael Flynn, his national security adviser, is under fire for potentially breaking the law after reports late Thursday noted he discussed sanctions against the Kremlin with the Russian ambassador in December, despite the administration s past denials.
Kellyanne Conway violated ethical guidelines by hawking Ivanka Trump s clothing line on Fox & Friends.
She did that while seated in the White House briefing room.
And that s just the short list.Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.