We ve been covering the curious case of DOJ official Bruce Ohr and his wife Nellie Ohr What they did is so corrupt and underhanded!
Nellie worked for the opposition research firm hired by the Democrats to get dirt on Trump (see below).
Her husband would take whatever Nellie produced about Trump and hand it over to the FBI!
Unreal!
This should be jail time because of the omission of the conflict of interest being an ethics violation.
So far, it appears as though Bruce Ohr has just been demoted.NOW WE FIND OUT THAT BRUCE OHR HID THE FUSION GPS PAYMENTS TO HIS WIFE:Daily Caller reports:Bruce Ohr, the Department of Justice official who brought opposition research on President Donald Trump to the FBI, did not disclose that Fusion GPS, which performed that research at the Democratic National Committee s behest, was paying his wife, and did not obtain a conflict of interest waiver from his superiors at the Justice Department, documents obtained by The Daily Caller News Foundation show.The omission may explain why Ohr was demoted from his post as associate deputy attorney general after the relationship between Fusion GPS and his wife emerged and Fusion founder Glenn Simpson acknowledged meeting with Ohr.
Willfully falsifying government ethics forms can carry a penalty of jail time, if convicted.The Democratic National Committee (DNC) hired Fusion GPS to gather and disseminate damning info about Trump, and they in turn paid Nellie Ohr, a former CIA employee with expertise in Russia, for an unknown role related to the dossier.
Bruce Ohr then brought the information to the FBI, kicking off a probe and a media firestorm.The DOJ used it to obtain a warrant to wiretap a Trump adviser, but didn t disclose to the judge that the DNC and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton s campaign had funded the research and that Ohr had a financial relationship with the firm that performed it which could be, it turns out, because Ohr doesn t appear to have told his supervisors.
Some have suggested that the financial payments motivated Bruce Ohr to actively push the case.OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON NELLIE OHR:This is a big deal even though we re sure the main stream media will ignore it.
The connection between a now demoted DOJ official and Fusion GPS just got closer.
His wife worked for the opposition research firm responsible for THE ANTI-TRUMP DOSSIER!
The plot thickens <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"> </span>Fox News reports:A senior Justice Department official demoted last week for concealing his meetings with the men behind the anti-Trump dossier had even closer ties to Fusion GPS, the firm responsible for the incendiary document, than has been disclosed, Fox News has confirmed: The official s wife worked for Fusion GPS during the 2016 election.Contacted by Fox News, investigators for the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) confirmed that Nellie H. Ohr, wife of the demoted official, Bruce G. Ohr, worked for the opposition research firm last year.
The precise nature of Mrs. Ohr s duties including whether she worked on the dossier remains unclear but a review of her published works available online reveals Mrs. Ohr has written extensively on Russia-related subjects.
HPSCI staff confirmed to Fox News that she was paid by Fusion GPS through the summer and fall of 2016.
Read more: Fox NewsJAMES ROSEN HAS THIS ON BRUCE OHR:KABOOOOOM !!
Mueller Investigation CRUMBLES !
!First Strzok and Paige then Weissmann, then Rhee and NOW Bruce Ohr BUSTED w/ both hands in the Fake Trump Dossier cookie jar !
!#FireMueller #ShutItDown Investigating the Investigators pic.twitter.com/u9YgFa6421 #ObamaGate (@StockMonsterVIP) December 7, 2017Read more: Daily Caller