A day after he schooled Republicans during his historic State of the Union Address, President Obama smacked them down again in their own backyard.On Wednesday, President Obama traveled to America s heartland to speak to a crowd in Omaha, Nebraska and just like he did on multiple occasions on Tuesday night, called out Republicans for their bullshit claims about the state of our country.
That s how crazy our politics has gotten.
Where we now feel obliged to not root for America doing good.
So when you hear people peddling this fiction about our enemies getting stronger, America getting weaker, when you hear folks say we can solve challenges by looking meaner or talking tougher, or carpet bombing wherever we want.
That s just hot air.
It s bluster.
It s not serious.
There s another word for it that starts with a B It s baloney.
Here the video via YouTube.During the State of the Union Address, President Obama chided Republicans for refusing to accept the science of climate change, and slammed them for not voting for military action against ISIS even as they claim that he isn t doing enough to stop them.Despite what Republicans like Ted Cruz and Donald Trump say, America is already great and has been getting stronger every day as President Obama s policies continue to make Republicans desperate to destroy him.
America has witnessed an unprecedented job growth streak that has reduced unemployment to 5 percent.
Meanwhile, more Americans than ever before are gaining health insurance for themselves and their families.
President Obama has also taken actions to fight climate change and has struck back against terrorist organizations time and time again over the course of his presidency, dealing heavy blows to their leadership structure in particular.Yet, to hear Republicans talk, you would think that America has been rendered into a wasteland that somehow only they can save.
The only problem is that they have to lie repeatedly to make anyone think that.
The facts, however, tell us that America is progressing and flourishing despite every Republican attempt to sabotage it over the years.
And that s because President Obama has been a great leader, which is why Republicans are so desperate to have us believe that America is falling apart or faces destruction.
Because the only way they will ever win the presidency again is if enough Americans actually believe them.Featured Image: Pete Souza