At least Elizabeth Warren isn t a quitter like Sarah Palin.After all, Sarah Palin could have remained in office as Governor of Alaska and continued to build a political career.
Instead, Palin quit halfway through her term to pursue reality stardom and has become nothing more than a desperate grifter who relies on donations to her super PAC to maintain her lifestyle.That s not fighting like a girl, it s conning like a conman.Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, however, is still fighting for women and the poor and middle class in Congress and could very well run for president in 2020.
Warren has been fighting for the American people for years and has become a symbol of the women s movement.That s why Warren posed with the Fearless Girl statue on Tuesday and posted the image on Twitter with the caption, Fight like a girl.
Fight like a girl.
pic.twitter.com/qGTn46jS9W Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) April 18, 2017And of course, Sarah Palin whined about it by crying to Breitbart.Palin claimed that she s a legit fighter for women and accused Warren of urging women to claim victimization when asked about her use of the phrase.
I don t know.
Coming from liberals who urge women to claim victimization, Fight like a girl just doesn t sound the same as when legit fighters for equality say it, mean it, live it, and will never give it up.
Basically, Palin thinks fighting like a girl means never speaking up when you re being treated like shit.Women in this country have had to deal with rape culture, discrimination, and pay inequality for far too long, not to mention all the attacks on reproductive rights coming from right-wingers like Palin herself.How can one claim to fight like a girl when one doesn t even bother to fight for women rights to make their own choices about their own bodies?As usual, Palin is nothing more than a complete hypocrite who is bitching about a phrase she has never lived up to.Even Twitter users slammed Palin for attacking Warren.
@SarahPalinUSA Sorry Sara but you didn t create the quote , you stole it and claimed it as yours #GovernorQuitter Joey Mitchell (@JoeyM728) April 19, 2017@SarahPalinUSA Before you know it, she ll be hanging out in Alaska claiming that she can see Russia from her backyard.
Michelle Mantell (@mich101564) April 19, 2017@SarahPalinUSA Are you truly this stupid?
This comment was not created by you!
It s been around for decades and you stole it from someone else.
SAD!
Michael Fishel (@SparkyWhoRuns) April 19, 2017@SarahPalinUSA I think you should engage Warren in a public debate then.
You won t. She would eat you alive and you know it, Mrs Word Salad.
E-Man (@ebruce2) April 19, 2017@SarahPalinUSA Rather have a senator that works than have a quitter anyday .. LMFAO TheStuPadaso (@The_Stu_Padaso) April 19, 2017Featured Image: Flickr