Team Trump is having a war on math.
Alleged president Donald Trump spoke at CIA headquarters and literally lied to the U.S. Intelligence agency about his Inaugural crowd size.
He said he looked out, the field was, it looked like a million, million and a half people.
White House Press secretary Sean Spicer said, This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period.
Kellyanne Conway defended Spicer by saying he was presenting alternate facts.
Well, we have some bad news for Donald.
Previously, it was estimated that the historic Women s March on Washington had twice the crowd size of Trump s big event.
Crowd experts looked into that and the numbers are not in Donald s favor.
It s worse than what was previously reported.Crowd scientists Marcel Altenburg and Keith Still of Manchester Metropolitan University in Britain shared their estimations with the New York Times.Professor Still was a crowd safety consultant for the 2011 royal wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton, and has advised the Saudi government on crowds for the hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca.Nearly 3 million around the world gathered for marches on Saturday.
In Los Angeles, 85,000 people were expected to protest but 750,000 showed up to march.The previous analysis was limited in scope because there wasn t any footage of a larger area available yet.
As per the analysis, about three times the amount of people attended the Women s Watch than those who attended Donald s inauguration.The Hill reports:Estimates by crowd scientists shows at least 470,000 people were in Washington, D.C., near the National Mall at 2 p.m. Saturday.
At Trump s inauguration, there were about 160,000 people in the same area The Washington, D.C. metro reported that Saturday was its second-busiest day in the city s history, with more than 1 million trips taken on the metro.
The busiest day ever was former President Barack Obama s Inauguration Day in 2009.
On Trump s Inauguration Day on Friday, about 570,000 trips were taken on the metro.On top of that, Donald s inauguration was met with a crowd about one third the size of President Obama s inauguration in 2009, according to the crowd scientists.Three million women, men and children attended the marches across America.
By the way, that s almost the amount Donald lost the popular vote by to Hillary Clinton.
In response to the number of protesters, Donald asked why they didn t vote.
But we did vote, and he lost by three million.Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images