Donald Trump is continuing his campaign of fear-mongering, this time insisting that the 2016 election will be the last actual election unless Americans put him in the White House.
Appearing for an interview on the Christian Broadcasting Network, Trump told host David Brody that Republicans will never have a chance at the White House again because you re going to have illegal immigrants coming in and they re going to be legalized and they re going to be able to vote and once that all happens you can forget it.
So, in other words, Trump is once again blaming immigrants for all of the Republican Party s problems.
The thing is, though, the GOP s issues are of their own making.
They are on the wrong side of history on issues of race, women s issues, their fervent bigotry against the LGBTQ community, their denial of science, and any other number of issues.
In other words, until they stop being the party of bigotry, they will never appeal to anyone but bigots, and there just aren t enough of them left in the general electorate for a majority to want to put an obvious racist in the White House.
Here is the transcript of that exchange, via Right Wing Watch:Trump: I think it s going to be the last election that the Republicans can win.
If we don t win this election, you ll never see another Republican and you ll have a whole different church structure.
You re going to have a whole different Supreme Court structure.
That has to do a lot with what we re doing because the Supreme Court, as you know with Justice Scalia gone, I think you could probably have four to five judges picked by the next president.
Probably a record number, David, probably a record number of judges.
If they pick the super-liberals, probably to a certain extent, people that would make Bernie Sanders happy, you will never have a Supreme Court, we re going to end up with another Venezuela, large scale version.
It would be a disaster for the country.Brody: Just so I understand, when you say last election are you referring to what Michele Bachmann was talking about with citizenship because Hillary is talking about potentially providing citizenship for many of these illegals.
Florida and Texas could be gone.Trump: I think this will be the last election if I don t win.
I think this will be the last election that the Republicans have a chance of winning because you re going to have people flowing across the borders, you re going to have illegal immigrants coming in and they re going to be legalized and they re going to be able to vote and once that all happens you can forget it.
I guarantee you, you re not going to have one Republican vote.
And it s already a very hard number.
Already the path is much more difficult for the Republicans.
You just have to look at the maps and the path is much more difficult.And here is the video:The thing is, Republicans have no one to thank for the mass defection from their party but themselves.
They ve trafficked in hate, conspiracy theories, science denial, and theocratic bigotry for decades.
Donald Trump is the natural result of cultivating those sorts of uninformed, ignorant voters the voters that make up their base that they have to pander to.
But, of course, they ll never admit it, and their hateful, archaic party will go into the ash heap of history and into irrelevancy at the national level where it belongs.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images