If you ve subjected yourself to cable news over the last few days, you ve probably noticed a non-stop barrage of coverage of the most pressing issue of the week.
Hillary Clinton is *gasp* human, and she sometimes succumbs to germs.If anything, the fact that Hillary made an appearance at New York s 9/11 Memorial Service, despite the fact that she had pneumonia, is a testament to her stamina, not a sign of weakness, but the media has turned it into just another way Hillary is deceiving the public.This tactic might backfire on the media.
Nearly every woman can relate to the idea of trying to forget they are sick, so they can get s**t done, whether that s**t includes taking care of a household or taking care of a country (or anything in between).CNN reporter Christiane Amanpour is pretty angry.
Her network has been among the worst in the non-stop bullying of a woman recovering from a common illness.
So, Amanpour took to the air to beg the media, Can t a girl have a sick day or two?
Finally tonight, imagine a world where you can t slow down, you absolutely cannot, can t get sick.
This weekend after attending a 9/11 memorial in New York after more than a year of relentless campaigning, the Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, fell ill and these pictures have boomeranged across the world.
Several hours later the campaign revealed the former secretary of state had been diagnosed with pneumonia on Friday.
But surely this can t be a case of a human being having an off day.
Nope.
Like so many things Hillary, the media are having a field day, off to the races with another debilitating case of indignant outrage.
This must be another typical Clinton conspiracy to fool them with total transparency breakdown.
Talk about a transparency breakdown what about Donald Trump s tax returns?
Where are they?
Can t a girl have a sick day or two?
Don t get me started because when it comes to overqualified women having to try 100 times harder than underqualified men to get a break or even a level playing field, well we know that story.
And then, to hammer home the double standard, Amanpour talked about the male presidents who have suffered from their various forms of frailty.
And seriously now, the 14th president of the United States, Franklin Pierce rose to that role after earning the nickname Fainting Frank for twice collapsing in two battles in 1847, she continued.
Who could ever forget George Bush senior throwing up all over the Japanese prime minister and then fainting at a state dinner?
And he oversaw the fall of the Soviet Union and won the first Gulf War.
Considering the media outrage over Hillary failing to tell them she had pneumonia on Friday, consider the media activity shielding some great American presidents, agreeing for instance, not to show these photographs of Franklin D. Roosevelt, whose Polio kept him confined to a wheelchair, but did that stop his New Deal for America or winning World War II?
And then there is everyone s favorite president, John F Kennedy.
Now he saved the world from possible nuclear Armageddon during the Cuban missile crisis, called for a new frontier in space and generally inspired whole generations around the globe while the press kept secret his painful struggle with Addison s disease.
Leading the world in sickness and in health if the boys can do it, why not the women?
Here s the video courtesy of Media Matters:The bottom line is, human bodies are flawed, and even the most healthy of us occasionally gets sick.
Treating that as a moral failing is insulting to all women, not just to Hillary Clinton.Featured image via video screen capture