President Obama has a few months left in office and at this stage in his presidency, he wants to make sure that the likes of Donald Trump is as far away from the most powerful position on earth as possible.
The president had his opportunity when he sat down with the Republican mouth piece Fox News in an interview with the conservative organization that has given Donald Trump free press for months.
The president wasn t shy about pointing that out.During an interview on Fox News Sunday, host Chris Wallace asked the president if he felt any responsibility for angry constituents, who have not seen a change in their economic situation and are now attracted to Donald Trump.
The president said: There s no doubt that I feel frustrated about it.
Number one, we re still shell shocked from what happened in 2007-2008 People lost homes, lost jobs, lost life savings and they still don t fully know how that happened and was the system fixed in a way they can have confidence in.
Wallace asked why Obama had not fixed that in eight years.
The president responded: The perception is going to be changing over time as people see results.
But and this is the big but nobody is going to be 100 percent satisfied in a democracy like ours with every outcome.
And I think the danger both among Republicans and among Democrats who just listen to each other or they just listen to people that already agree with them you know, Republicans have their own TV station.
Go ahead, Wallace said, You can say Fox News.
Of course it s Fox News.
Is the president correct?
Yes he is.
Trump has received at least $30 million dollars of free airtime from May, 2015 to the end of 2015 alone.
Mikey Mouse would be leading the Republican race if he would be given a major news outlet as a personal mouthpiece.Let s hope that the damage Fox has done by giving this demagogue a platform will not go beyond this year and we can look back at all this and sigh in relief that we won t be seeing Trump s demagoguery on display as president of the United States.Watch video here: Featured image via video screenshot.