Jean-Marie Simon, a passenger on a United Airlines flight from Houston to Washington D.C. has accused United Airlines of giving her first-class seat to U.S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee.
D-Houston.
When the flight attendant saw her taking a picture of the congresswoman who was seated in her front row, first-class seat, she threatened to remove her from the plane.Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) in seat 1A the one I paid for dearly, and the one United gave to her without my consent or knowledge!
Fellow congressman on same flight said she does it repeatedly.
@united pic.twitter.com/Q2c6u6B0Yp Jean-Marie Simon (@JeanMarieSimon1) December 23, 2017A mechanical problem with the plane delayed take-off and after about 50 minutes, she said, passengers were invited to consult with a gate agent about alternative flights.Simon said she went to the front and snapped a photo of Jackson Lee and told a flight attendant that she knew why she d been bumped.In her statement, Jackson Lee said she overheard Simon speaking with an African-American flight attendant and saw her snap the photo.JACKSON LEE PULLS THE RACE CARD: Since this was not any fault of mine, the way the individual continued to act appeared to be, upon reflection, because I was an African American woman, seemingly an easy target along with the African American flight attendant who was very, very nice, Jackson Lee said in the statement.
This saddens me, especially at this time of year given all of the things we have to work on to help people.
But in the spirit of this season and out of the sincerity of my heart, if it is perceived that I had anything to do with this, I am kind enough to simply say sorry.
Simon said Jackson Lee s statement accused her of racism, adding: I had no idea who was in my seat when I complained at the gate that my seat had been given to someone else, she said.
There is no way you can see who is in a seat from inside the terminal.
It was just so completely humiliating, said Jean-Marie Simon, a 63-year-old attorney and private school teacher who used 140,000 miles on Dec. 3 to purchase the first-class tickets to take her from Washington D.C. to Guatemala and back home.According to True Pundit The Democrat has developed a reputation for making life hell for any clerk, stewardess, or pilot unwilling or unable to make her three-and-a-half-hour flight anything less than glamorous.
She takes advantage of federal travel perks to book multiple flights (only to cancel at the last minute and at no charge).
She demands an upgrade to premier seats.
She expects, in her words, to be treated like a queen.
Sometimes it gets ugly.
For instance, when one peasant of a flight attendant failed to serve the food Jackson Lee requested, the congresswoman went wild.
Don t you know who I am?
she reportedly shrieked.
I m Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.
Where is my seafood meal?
I know it was ordered!
That inflight incident was in 1998, and Jackson Lee has only increased in seniority since.
She sits on the Committee on Homeland Security and she serves as the ranking member of the subcommittee on transportation security, no doubt, giving her, even more, sway over the airlines and even more of a reason to feel entitled.When accused of taking an ill-gotten first-class seat, Jackson Lee was adamant she didn t do anything wrong.
It s just the way she expects to be treated.
I asked for nothing exceptional or out of the ordinary and received nothing exceptional or out of the ordinary, the congresswoman said in a statement.
True Pundit