Rudy Giuliani s health insurance won t cover this burn.The former New York City mayor who now forgets about 9/11 has been repeatedly peddling conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton s health on behalf of Donald Trump, insisting that she is too sick to be president and the only proof he offers is to tell people to go on the Internet and do a search on Google.During The Late Show on Tuesday night, Stephen Colbert took Giuliani to the woodshed for spreading unsubstantiated bullshit.
Yes, Rudy Giuliani says just diagnose Hillary on the Internet, Colbert said.
Because if it s on the internet you know it s true.
For instance, I put my symptoms into WebMD and found out I have menopause.
Colbert then did exactly what Giuliani told everyone to do and found hilarious results.As it turns out, the first thing Colbert found was a video of Giuliani saying that Hillary is sick.
And that led to Colbert hilariously diagnosing Giuliani.
So, let me get this straight, let me explain this to you.
Here s what s happening: Giuliani says she s not healthy and then look it up on the Internet.
And when you look it up on the Internet it says Giuliani says she s not healthy and to look it up on the Internet.
It s like it s an endless loop.
It s like a snake with its tail in its mouth.
Or a man with his head up his own ass.
Trump and his minions have been pushing the lie about Clinton s health for weeks now.
Fox News host Sean Hannity started this witch hunt when he interpreted a video of Hillary being playful and joking around as her having seizures, something which a real journalist who has real seizures called him out for in Newsweek.And then Giuliani started peddling the conspiracy theory despite the fact that it has been thoroughly debunked.
Even Hillary s own doctor released a detailed statement on her overall health.Colbert opined that Giuliani and Trump know so much about Hillary s health because they are experts on female anatomy, which he proved by showing a video of Giuliani dressed in drag being motorboated by the Republican nominee.
You re going to want to verify that video.
Just go online and put down Donald Trump Rudy Giuliani motorboat, Colbert quipped.But Colbert saved the most devastating diagnosis for last, and let s just say the truth is going to hurt Trump and Giuliani below the belt.
I don t know why they keep saying things like frail or weak or low-energy.
You re just tip-toeing around the medical condition that you re really upset about.
One that she has that no other president in history has ever faced.
Hillary Clinton has chronic no penis.
Here s the video via YouTube.Republicans need to stop peddling their false claims about Hillary s health.
They are not real doctors and claiming that every little twitch or cough somehow disqualifies her from being president is completely asinine.
FDR suffered from polio and led the nation through the Great Depression and World War II and served longer than any other president in American history.
Woodrow Wilson suffered a stroke while in office and served out his second term.
Dwight Eisenhower had a serious heart attack in 1955 and a mild stroke in 1957 but still was re-elected in 1956 and served his second term.
Ronald Reagan underwent surgery several times to remove cancer.By Trump and Giuliani s logic, none of these men should have ever been president simply because of their various health problems, and those health issues were verifiable facts, not the garbage Republicans are claiming now about Hillary Clinton s health.Featured image via screen capture