House Speaker Paul Ryan just dropped the hammer on Donald Trump and his outrageous accusation against President Obama.Just over ten days ago, Trump took to Twitter to openly accuse President Obama of wiretapping him.Terrible!
Just found out that Obama had my wires tapped in Trump Tower just before the victory.
Nothing found.
This is McCarthyism!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017How low has President Obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process.
This is Nixon/Watergate.
Bad (or sick) guy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017Of course, Trump provided absolutely no evidence to support his claims and still has not done so, even after Congress set a deadline for Trump s administration to provide them with it.Well, Trump missed the deadline and Congress extended it, but the writing is already on the wall.
Trump lied when he claimed that Obama wiretapped him, and Republicans are admitting it.On Wednesday, House Intelligence Committee chairman Rep. Devin Nunes said there is no evidence to back up Trump s claim.
We don t have any evidence that that took place and in fact, I don t believe just in the last week of time, the people we ve talked to I don t think there was an actual tap of Trump Tower, Nunes said.Rep.
Adam Schiff concurred, saying, I ve seen no evidence that supports the claim that Trump made that his predecessor had wiretapped he and his associates at Trump Tower.
Thus far, we have seen no basis for that whatsoever.
And Paul Ryan buried Trump s claim once and for all during a talk with the press on Thursday.
The intelligence committees in their continuing, ongoing, and widening investigation into all things Russia got to the bottom, at least so far with respect to our intelligence community, that no such wiretap existed.
Here s the video via Twitter.Speaker Paul Ryan, asked about Trump s claim that former President Obama wiretapped him, says no such wiretap existed .
pic.twitter.com/gTF62Dss7Y CNBC Now (@CNBCnow) March 16, 2017So even though Trump continues to insist that his accusation is accurate, Republicans in Congress have confirmed what the rest of us already know: Trump is full of shit.Featured image via screenshot