Is it possible that Bill s latest move could ve just sealed Hillary s fate?
It actually makes perfect sense.
Bill and Hillary Clinton have spent their entire lives trying to figure out how to game the system.
Is it possible that Bill has actually one-upped Hillary this time, putting the kibosh on her political aspirations, leaving him with millions from her Wall Street speeches and their home in Chappaqua, New York; minus his cantankerous, scheming, lying, screeching and (according to former secret service agents) sometimes violent wife?Back in April, Slate s Michelle Goldberg offered the Hillary Clinton campaign some sage advice: Fire Bill Clinton.
The Clinton campaign declined to take her suggestion, but perhaps they should give it another look.Bill Clinton is one of the most talented politicians of the past century, but his infallible skills continue to fail him when put in the service of someone other than himself.On Monday, Clinton was on a tarmac in Phoenix when he learned that the attorney general, Loretta Lynch, would soon be on the same tarmac.
He delayed his flight so he could try to meet with her.
He asked for a meeting, boarded her plane and chatted for about 30 minutes.On Friday, MSNBC s Jonathan Capehart asked Lynch if there was one important thing she wished former Attorney General Eric Holder had told her.
Where the lock on the plane door was, Lynch deadpanned.
(Meanwhile, Republicans are calling for an independent prosecutor, which is rich: there isn t enough time to confirm a Supreme Court justice, but plenty of time for Ken Starr to ride into town again.
)On its face, it was wrong to do, and Democrats would be savaging Republicans if the situation were reversed.
It raises one of two possibilities: Either Bill Clinton is an idiot or he wants his wife to lose.
I wonder if there s a part of Bill Clinton that doesn t really want Hillary Clinton to become president, particularly if she has to distance herself from his legacy to do so, wondered Goldberg back in April, listing a bill of idiotic particulars.
How else to explain why one of the world s most talented and agile politicians is so consistently flat-footed and destructive when advocating on his wife s behalf?
The fallout from the meeting was predictable: Lynch has said she regrets sitting down with Clinton and wouldn t do it again, given a do-over.
And she has said that she will not overrule career prosecutors if they recommend an indictment.
Whatever decision the Justice Department ends up making is now clouded in (even more) suspicion.And perhaps the greatest damage was done to Lynch.
It must be awfully difficult to turn down a meeting request from a former president, the spouse of the likely future president, especially for somebody who may have future political ambitions.
Did Lynch have aspirations for the Supreme Court?
If so, what Clinton just did casts a pall over whatever chance she had.Via: Huffington Post