Florida Senator Marco Rubio has been going after presidential rival Donald Trump with a vengeance over the past few weeks, continuously calling out the Republican front-runner in every way possible from his lies to his spelling to his offensive and hateful rhetoric.On Friday, Rubio targeted Trump s anti-Muslim comments during an appearance on CNN s New Day , stating that Trump needs to tone down the Islamophobia because the rhetoric a president puts forth has life and death consequences.
Rubio, who pretty much has no hope for becoming the GOP nominee, spoke some truth when he said: I know people like it that Donald Trump says whatever he wants and whatever they feel like saying.
Presidents cannot say anything they want.
Presidents have to understand that their words have consequences, often life and death consequences, for real people in the real world.
Because of Trump s inflammatory, foul remarks, Rubio said what any level-headed American instinctively knows: that Trump wouldn t be a good commander-in-chief if he can t work with America s armed service in its entirety because many of those members are Muslims.
Rubio posed this question: How are you going to face them as commander-in-chief, knowing you re going around saying all Muslims hate the United States?
I don t think you re going to be able to be a good commander-in-chief.
You can watch Rubio s criticism of the business mogul below:These statements from Rubio come just one day after Rubio slammed Trump during Thursday s Republican debate, stating that defending Muslims isn t about being politically correct after Trump insisted that Islam hates us.
During the debate, Rubio made similar comments to his interview on CNN: I know that a lot of people find appeal in the things Donald says, because he says what people wish they could say.
The problem is presidents can t just say anything they want.
It has consequences, here and around the world.
Stating that although there are dangers in the world in regards to radical Islam, it s wrong to generalize an entire religion.
Rubio said: There is no doubt that radical Islam is a danger to the world.
I can also tell you that if you go to any national cemetery, especially Arlington, you re going to see crescent moons there.
If you go anywhere in the world, you re going to see American men and women serving us in uniform that are Muslims.
Rubio s right, whether you agree with him as a presidential candidate or not and this goes way beyond Trump s feelings about the Islamic faith.
He s demonstrated the same anger and insensitivity toward Hispanics, women and many other minority groups.
Trump s inflammatory, hateful rhetoric has the power and influence to divide this nation instead of unify it.
He s taken the most awful aspects of the Republican party and amplified them.
Just by the way his rallies have transformed into fighting arenas, Trump has already demonstrated that he approves of violence and cares very little about peace and the well-being of Americans his bigotry doesn t support.
He s dangerous behind comprehension, and his brand of ignorance threatens to destroy America.Featured image via Gage Skidmore