Unable to find any A-list celebrities to headline his inauguration concert, Donald Trump turned to has-been actor Jon Voight to give a short speech and it was pathetic.As President Abraham Lincoln s statue was forced to sit and watch, Voight took to the stage to introduce Sam Moore to sing and delivered some short remarks that immediately set the Internet ablaze with fury that makes us all understand why his daughter Angelina Jolie wants nothing to do with him.Voight portrayed Trump as a victim of lies and propaganda, and then pumped out pro-Trump propaganda that included claiming that God is on Trump s side and that Lincoln is happy about Trump being in the White House.
Seriously.
We have all witnessed a grueling year and half for the president-elect, Voight said.
We have been witnessed to a barrage of propaganda that left us all breathless with anticipation.
Not knowing if God could reverse all the negative lies against Mr. Trump whose only desire whose only desire was to make America great again!
After some more bullshit about how God answered the prayers of conservatives, Voight insulted Lincoln by invoking his name and claimed that Lincoln approves of Trump And President Lincoln, who sits here with us, I m sure is smiling knowing America will be saved by an honest and good man who will work for all the people no matter their creed of color, Voight concluded.Here s the video via YouTube.Trump repeatedly insulted black people on the campaign trail, did not name a single Latino to his Cabinet, and only named two people who are not white men to serve in Cabinet posts.It should also be pointed out that Donald Trump had the support of white supremacists throughout his campaign and he even named one as his top adviser.
If Lincoln s statue could have stood up to vomit behind the Memorial it would have done so.The Internet immediately mocked Voight for his divisive lies.Pretty sure Lincoln is not smiling, Jon Voight Katlyn D Angelo (@KatlynDAngelo) January 20, 2017Jon Voight said God answered our prayers in electing Trump?It must be the same god slave owners thanked for slavery#TrumpInauguration Yukio Strachan (@boldandworthy) January 20, 2017Sorry @jonvoight I doubt God wants anything to do with trump.
But then, many Germans said the same about Hitler, so .. https://t.co/IPwMak8EwE Just Frank ??????
(@fraowe) January 20, 2017Jon Voight invoking God to sanctify @realDonaldTrump as an honest, good man who has survived lies & propaganda.
OMG.
What planet is he on?
Flinty Maguire (@FlintyMaguire) January 19, 2017 Celebrities shouldn t speak out on politics the same people praising Jon Voight for speaking out in favor of Donald Trump.
Mike Hughes (@hughster1) January 20, 2017i had not vomited once in the 19 years since i quit drinking.
thanks Jon Voight for reminding me of what i d been missing mark lanegan (@marklanegan) January 19, 2017Jon Voight apparently missed the memo on moments of grace and national unity.
#inaug2017 David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) January 19, 2017@JConabicycle HAHAHAHAHA here s the headliner LOL!!
!JON VOIGHT!!!!!!!!
How fucking pathetic.
Jesus H. Christ (@JConabicycle) January 19, 2017No wonder why Jon Voight s daughter keeps her distance.
Derek Burlingame (@DerekBurlingame) January 20, 2017Trump and his supporters could not even stop being divisive and petty at an inauguration concert in front of the Lincoln Memorial.
Sad.Featured image via screenshot