Bill Maher literally called bullshit when a Donald Trump supporter insisted that Russia did not interfere with the 2016 Election.Racist CNN pundit Jeffrey Lord has made every excuse in the book to defend Trump and he brought the excuses to Real Time on Friday night when he attempted to spin the Russia scandal by claiming that Russia did nothing to help Trump to begin with.Maher was not in the mood for bullshit on this night as he called Lord out for supporting a vulgar human being.
Lord threw out a false equivalency by comparing everything Trump has said to Hillary Clinton s accurate assessment of Trump supporters as deplorable people.Apparently, Clinton s one comment magically makes every truly horrible thing Trump said disappear.Lord then tried to claim that Russia did not influence the election simply because they allegedly did not hack any voting machines.That s when Maher pounced.
Don t bullsh*t me!
Maher responded before going over the fact that 17 intelligence agencies agree that Russia interfered in our election process by hacking the DNC and Clinton campaign officials.
Russia also spread propaganda and misinformation to help Trump.Maher even mentioned that we could find out a whole lot more about Trump s deep ties to Russia if he were forced to release his taxes.Lord then parroted Trump by calling for an investigation into Nancy Pelosi for also meeting with the Russian ambassador, even though Pelosi s meeting was not a secret and Russia did not influence her election results.
Russians didn t hack Nancy Pelosi s election, Maher shot back.
They hacked our election, all of our intelligence agencies said for one side to win, your side.
Are you telling me if it had worked out the other way and they were only hacking the Republicans to get Hilary elected you d let it slide?
Lord tried to get away not answering for this hypocrisy.
After all, Republicans would definitely be endlessly investigating Clinton if she had won the election with Russia s aid.But Maher forced Lord to answer and he conceded that Republicans are hypocrites.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump s staunchest defenders should be ashamed of themselves.
They should be ashamed as Americans and as human beings.
They are literally defending a man who cares more about himself and his own image than he does about this country and our collective future.
This Russia scandal is enough to get Trump impeached and he should be ousted before he can do more damage to this nation.Featured image via screenshot