First of all, the picture of President Trump that s behind Pelosi is as funny as it gets.
Could that be what got Pelosi all sad during her interview with Joy Reid?House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi was clearly disturbed by the comments and questions from liberal hack Joy Reid this morning.
She made a face when asked about those in the Democratic Party that want to see her step down from her leadership position.MSNBC S Reid discussed with Pelosi the goals of the Democrats in 2018.
She mentioned winning back a majority in the House of Representatives.
Pelosi smiled at the remark but then things went downhill from there Reid then took a veiled swipe at Pelosi and you could see Pelosi s face fall: There is still a contingent on the left side of the Democratic Party that would like to see you ousted as leader.
Pelosi is clearly hanging on to her leadership by a thread and continues to deny the rift in the party.
Delusional?Oh Boy!
Then Reid asked: If the Democrats were to retake the House, do you foresee a challenge to your leadership?
Pelosi disagreed and defended her continued leadership: With all due respect, I disagree with your characterization.
I have overwhelming support of my caucus.
There are some people there who disagree with me, and that s OK, but I would not say that it s a challenge from the left, because I am on the left.
It gets better she takes a swipe at any challengers to her leadership by saying it s about others ambition Yikes!
She s not going down without a fight!Several Democrats have called for Pelosi to step down and MSNBC called the situation an ugly divide in the party.We think her time has come and gone but we re with President Trump KEEP HER!
SHE S GREAT FOR THE GOP!HERE S ANOTHER RECENT MENTION TO PELOSI ABOUT STEPPING DOWN: WOW!
Nancy Pelosi can t keep a train of thought going for more than a few seconds.
She stumbles over her own words and can t remember what she just said.
She gets really irritated with Meghan McCain who pointed out there s a divide in the Democrat Party.
She claims that, This is our turn!
SHE S BANANAS!MEGHAN MCCAIN, CO-HOST THE VIEW : There s a fracture in your party, like mine.
There were people like Tim Ryan that were calling you to step down and asking for new blood.
I don t think it s gender, look at the Bernie supporters versus Hillary supporters.PELOSI: Let me, with all due respect, disagree with you.
There is not a fracture in our party similar to what s happening to the Republican party.
It s always been a dynamic party.
That s the vitality of it.
You name people that want me to step down, and I can name you people in my caucus that want me to stay.
If Hillary had won and dealt with things like Medicaid, MediCare and Affordable Care Act I had an important role in passing that I had a responsibly to protect that.
I feel very confident in what I m doing and the support I have.
Please don t think it s anything like the fracture that is in the Republican party.MCCAIN: It hasn t stopped us from winning.
President Trump is in the White House.
There s a break down someplace.PELOSI: This is our turn.
This is the first time since 2006 when we won the Congress, and I was the leader at the time.
This is the first time the House, congressional Chuck and I, we are the ones communicating with the American people on this.
We have a better deal, better jobs, better future for the American people.
We feel comfortable with that.
We have to get the message across.
It s one thing to have a message.
It s another thing to connect.