The National Rifle Association recently made a pathetic attempt to attack Hillary Clinton and it backfired horribly.The NRA thought it had released a clever video bashing Clinton s record of approving arms exports when she served as Secretary of State, but instead they validated what gun control advocates have been asking for all along: better background checks.In the video, Conservative host Dana Loesch accuses Clinton of letting the decision about whether or not to export arms to foreign nations be based on what countries had made donations to the Clinton Foundation.
These were, of course, false accusations but the NRA still tried to shame Clinton for something she didn t do.
In actuality, the U.S. has the highest standards in the world for deciding whether to approve gun sales to foreign nations.
But the NRA was apparently so focused on bashing the Democratic front runner, that the right-wing organization completely missed the fact that they d made a great case for background checks when Loesch said:Brilliant.
The video also makes another important point that countries approved for export permits are at least investigated to ensure that countries receiving guns from the United States will be using them to promote our national security interests and foreign policy objectives.
But in America, that s a different story.
Guns are not only available to our military, but to nearly anyone who can clear just a few legal/safety requirements.And it gets better.
Loesch continued to spew nonsense, once again unintentionally making a case for women in other countries and completely ignoring the fact that America has a huge issue with guns and domestic violence: When Hillary Clinton isn t trying to disarm women and prevent us from the equal opportunity exercise of our pro-choice right to self-defense, she is approving billion-dollar arms sales to countries with horrendous human rights records.
Countries where women have little to no rights, countries like Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Oman, and others.
According to gun reform group Everytown Research, domestic violence and gun deaths are very closely linked, but the NRA is choosing to be ignorant.
Domestic violence in America is to a significant degree a problem of gun violence.
Over the past 25 years, more intimate partner homicides in the U.S. have been committed with guns than with all other weapons combined.
And people with a history of committing domestic violence are five times more likely to subsequently murder an intimate partner when a firearm is in the house.
This attack ad implies that women in other countries could and should be kept safe with strong background checks and rigid gun ownership laws.
And by making no mention of protecting American women in the same way, the NRA s video suggests that women in this country should suffer the consequences that come with more relaxed gun laws.
We could make the argument that in America, we need gun control the most the United States leads other developed countries in gun violence by a landslide.Clinton, on the other hand, is passionate about reducing gun violence so while the NRA tried to soil Clinton s record, they instead revealed a huge hypocrisy in their own argument.
You can watch the video below:Featured image via Justin Sullivan / Getty Images