This video of conservative comedian Steven Crowder should be an example for every conservative in America on how to handle the well-trained Left!
It should be used in training sessions for conservatives about how to fight back against the LOUD, OBNOXIOUS liberals who have been allowed to shame and disgrace conservatives into adopting their positions for way too long!
If you re tired of sitting back and allowing the Left to disrupt every conservative event or rally in America by shaming you or threatening your physical well-being, you are going love this video!
Comedian Steven Crowder mercilessly tore into so-called social justice warriors when they disrupted his opening remarks within seconds of him taking the stage.Here is the video showing the LOUD and OBNOXIOUS protesters who Steven Crowder was addressing:Crowder was scheduled to tell some jokes and discuss free speech at the University of Massachusetts on Monday night alongside other speakers, including conservative firebrand Milo Yiannopoulos and former philosophy professor Christina Marie Hoff Sommers.
However, the comedian quickly ditched his prepared material to give his vocal critics a reality check.
Do you have any idea, sir, how pathetic it must be to be you?
These people wanted to hear a few jokes, some thoughtful discussion, but your head pops off the pillow in the morning with, How can I be a professional victim today?
Let me go in and screw with their act just because, oh my god, your parents didn t tell you that your opinion wasn t worth that much, Crowder said.For emphasis, he added, I m not your gender studies professor who has to cater to your trigger warning, microagression, safe space bulls**t!
It wasn t long before Crowder was apparently accused of being a racist.
Oh, I m a racist that s a new one.
Where d you learn that, in social human studies 101?
the comedian asked mockingly.But the bigger issue, Crowder explained, is that the left is now openly against free speech and the open debate of ideas.
You re not fighting for free speech, you re not fighting for rights you re fighting for the right to be a p***y and not hear opinions that you don t like, he said.
Alright, I m done, he concluded.
Via: The Blaze