The Donald Trump campaign is in trouble, and it s showing.
In a very surprising move, Trump has cut ties with his notoriously angry campaign manager Corey Lewandowski.
Infamously, the campaign manager was once videotaped (and nearly charged) for assaulting a reporter at one of Trump s notoriously violent rallies.
Now, he s out the door, and no one is quite sure why.
The Trump campaign released the following cryptic statement regarding Lewandowski s exit: The Donald J. Trump Campaign for President, which has set a historic record in the Republican Primary having received almost 14 million votes, has today announced that Corey Lewandowski will no longer be working with the campaign.
The campaign is grateful to Corey for his hard work and dedication and we wish him the best in the future.
This move comes amid the fact that Trump s Democratic rival Hillary Clinton has pumped more than $20 million into advertising in key general election battleground states, while Trump has not started advertising at all.
Further, there is a renewed and growing effort among the #DumpTrump faction of GOP delegates who do not want Trump as their presidential nominee.
The newly formed group, dubbed Free the Delegates, is aimed toward unbinding delegates who are bound to Trump and allowing them to vote their conscience instead.The thing is, the way Trump shook up the primary season with his outrageous remarks that fired up the ignorant, bigoted unwashed masses in the GOP s insane base simply isn t working in the general election.
Lewandowski was definitely an issue, with his hot temper.
That, along with Trump s own uncontrollable mouth simply could not continue.I suppose their recognizing these facts is good for the GOP and the Trump campaign, but it is likely too late.
The general electorate has seen what Trump is selling, and nobody is buying it.
He s a racist, sexist, xenophobic buffoon, and America does not want him as our next Commander-in-Chief.
Hopefully, this signals a death knell for Trump s nutty campaign, and we can focus on moving the nation forward when we elect Hillary Clinton in November.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images