As Donald Trump continues to take criticism from the press over his scandalous ties to Russia, the ladies of The View noticed that one network is deafeningly silent.Ever since FBI Director James Comey confirmed that Trump is being investigated for colluding with Russia during the 2016 campaign, the scandal has only widened as House Intelligence Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes demonstrated that he s more interested in derailing the investigation than he is in pursuing it.Nunes has canceled hearings that would have shined more light on Trump s scandal and he also went to the White House to personally inform Trump about the committee s investigation, which is highly unethical and proves that Republicans are incapable of running this investigation.Indeed, Nunes own ties to Russia and Putin have been recently revealed.
As it turns out, Nunes owns part of a winery that is connected to a Russian investor who is close to Putin.
Furthermore, Nunes served on Trump s transition team.
So it s clear that Nunes has a lot to lose if he allows the investigation to move forward.But even though the evidence against Trump is piling up and Republicans have been caught engaging in an attempted cover-up, Fox News is not screaming about it nearly as much as they were screaming about Benghazi.The hosts of View tackled Fox, Trump, and Nunes during their show on Tuesday.
And it wasn t pretty either as even the most conservative hosts on the program agreed that something smells awfully fishy.First, Whoopi Goldberg slammed Trump for calling his Russia scandal a hoax.
If it is a hoax, don t you want them to investigate and clear your name, my friend?
she quipped.Joy Behar pointed out that Trump is a serial liar so he has zero credibility on this issue.
First of all, we know he s a committed serial liar, so when he says it s a hoax, he means it s not a hoax, she said.Sunny Hostin, who is an attorney, chimed in by attacking Nunes for sneaking off to the White House to inform Trump on what his committee is doing and noted that Nunes could also be in trouble because he may have been caught on a wiretap talking to Russian officials since he was making calls as part of Trump s transition team.
Indeed, Nunes connections to Russia and Putin combined with his unwillingness to run a fair and unbiased investigation should force him to recuse himself and step down from the House Intelligence Committee.Then Whoopi Goldberg and Jedediah Bila teamed up to hammer Fox News.
Why isn t Fox screaming about this?
Goldberg asked.
They screamed about Benghazi.
She s right.
Fox News constantly talked about Benghazi as if it was the scandal to beat all scandals.
In the end, it was only a Republican witch hunt against Hillary Clinton and no wrongdoing was found.But Donald Trump has serious connections to Russia and Vladimir Putin and it has been proven that Russia interfered in the 2016 Election on Trump s behalf, especially after Trump asked them to continue hacking our institutions.
Several of Trump s aides and closest advisers have been revealed as having significant ties to Putin, including Michael Flynn, Paul Manafort, and Carter Page.
Even Trump s son-in-law took a meeting with a Russian banker who has close ties to Putin.If you have a brain right now and you re a functioning person, the word Russia has come up way too many times with this administration, Bila pointed out before referencing Putin.
That name is showing up too much for me to be comfortable right now.
Here s the video via YouTube:It s time for Congress to let an independent commission take over the investigation from the House Intelligence Committee.
Nunes has zero credibility and he has proven that he s nothing but a Trump stooge.
A special prosecutor should also be appointed tot eh investigation.
Donald Trump s Russia scandal has raged on for months and it s only getting bigger and bigger despite how much Republicans have been dragging their feet.
If Hillary Clinton were in the White House right now, Republicans would have triggered investigation after investigation over the tiniest hints of a scandal.
But Donald Trump is embroiled in a real scandal that threatens to topple our country to Putin s advantage and Republicans are reluctant to do anything about it because it threatens their power.
Not only should Trump be investigated, Republicans in Congress should be investigated for being complicit.Featured image via screenshot