Maybe this is Republican front-runner Donald Trump s strange way of celebrating April Fool s Day or maybe he s just being his normal, childish self, but The Donald has just posted a pretty hilarious video that boasts the fact that his GOP rival, Texas senator Ted Cruz, is highly unlikable.Cruz s unpopularity amongst not only the general public, but his Republican colleagues as well, has been widely reported on during this campaign.
So much so, that there was even an analysis done on the offensiveness of Cruz s face!
Trump is using this to his full advantage in his new Instagram video, which is so creatively entitled Nobody Likes Ted The short video goes through several instances where Cruz s peers have insulted and spoken about how much they dislike him.
Testimonials from Cruz s former college roommate Craig Mazin, old bosses like Bill O Reilly and fellow senators all get their fair share of the spotlight in footage that will surely take Cruz s ego down several notches.Mazin s appearance in the video was no surprise he s spoken openly about his disdain for Cruz several times before.
However, former Republican presidential nominee Bob Dole is an interesting addition, as he suggests he might oversleep on election day if Cruz is nominated.
Senator Lindsey Graham, who chose to endorse Cruz s campaign over Trump s, has previously made it perfectly clear that his endorsement in no way means that he likes Cruz, and that he believes the Texas senator is just as bad as President Barack Obama, if not worse.
Another hilarious part features Bill O Reilly telling Cruz that former President George W. Bush doesn t like him!
At the end of the video, after Cruz gets slammed by basically everyone he s ever been close to, the text reads TRUSTED?
You can watch Trump s video below:Does anybody like Lyin Ted?A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Apr 1, 2016 at 11:38am PDTNow infamous for his constant flip-flopping, Trump s certainly singing a different tune than he was in September, when he praised Cruz and said, I like him.
He likes me.
He s backed me 100 percent.
Featured image is a screenshot