There s an old saying: pot, meet kettle.
Republicans have become renowned for their absolute hypocrisy in recent years, especially their vile, hateful rhetoric towards anyone who isn t a white, straight Christian.
But now that Donald Trump is the party s de facto leader and presidential frontrunner, Republicans all across the country are now distancing themselves from him and his hateful remarks.But Nancy Pelosi is not letting Republicans get away with their pathetic softer image shtick.
Saying there isn t a dime worth of difference between Trump and the other Republicans, Pelosi blasted the GOP leadership for stoking racial demagoguery: Some Republicans, including members of their leadership, have said they cannot support the vile rhetoric and radical proposals of the Republican front-runner.
Today, we have gathered to ask, since when?
Since when have the House Republicans been so concerned about intolerant statements and discriminatory ideas?
She then added, Year after year, Republicans have enthusiastically turned their intolerance and their discrimination into legislation.
Pelosi then lambasted the GOP for their constant attacks on women s reproductive health, which has become synonymous with Trump s call to punish women who get abortions.Along with Reps. Jim Clyburn and Xavier Beccara, both Democrats, the minority leadership went all in on the GOP, and rightfully so.Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer echoed the Minority Leader s words, saying: The Republicans have created an environment in radicalism, fear and exclusion.
The presumptive nominee is the result of their work, and what they have sowed is what they are reaping.
Pelosi and Hoyer, as usual, are on the money.While Republicans are working overtime trying to soften Trump s vile image, the Democrats are doing their job of reminding the American people that there really is no difference between the new leader of the GOP and those in current power.With Elizabeth Warren, Hillary Clinton and Nancy Pelosi revving up their attacks on the GOP frontrunner (and indeed the whole party), 2016 may be the year of women in politics.And if that s the case, Donald Trump and Senate Republicans should be very afraid.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images