Ami Horowitz is a thought provoking filmmaker who took a lot of heat for exposing the truth about the horrific, violent no-go zones in Sweden in one of his recent documentary films.
Horowitz is also very controversial because he doesn t shy away from asking tough questions of the people he randomly interviews on the streets.In fiscal year 2014, Minnesota took in 2,232 refugees, according to the U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement.
Almost half of those were from Somalia.In the video below, Ami took to the streets in the Cedar Riverside neighborhood of Minneapolis, MN to talk a variety of Somali Muslim immigrants.
Ami posed several questions to a large variety of random Somali Muslim immigrants.
He asked young boys, teenagers, middle-aged men and even an older woman their thoughts on how they felt about living in the United States, and if they d rather living back in Somalia.
Horowitz also asked if they would prefer to live under Sharia Law or American laws.
Their answers may surprise you.The most shocking part of the video however, comes near the end when Horowitz begins to discuss freedom of speech in America.
While one of the men being interviewed talks about how great it is to be in America and to be afforded rights like freedom of speech and freedom of religion, every single Muslim respondent believed that free speech is great unless it involves criticizing the prophet Mohammed.
Horowitz took his question a step further and asked if was okay for Muslims to use violence against someone who disparaged or insulted Mohammed.
Every Muslim he asked, believed that using violence, including killing a person who criticized or mocked Mohammed, would be justified.Watch:After a major dip in 2008, the year ly num bers of new So ma li refu gees in Minnesota have re bounded stead i ly.
The num ber of So malis re set tled in the state has more than trip led in four years.
As resettlements nationally have picked up, more So malis are also arriving here after brief stints in other states often trading early support from resettlement agencies for the company of more fellow Somalis.
You tend to go some where you can con nect, said Mo ha mud Noor, the head of the Con fed er a tion of So ma li Community in Minnesota.
Be fore peo ple even ar rive from Af ri ca, they know they are com ing to Minnesota.
But without the Twin Cities family ties of earlier arrivals, these newcomers often can t lean as heavily on longer-term Somali residents.
Mary s Place, a Minneapolis home less shel ter, has be come ground zero for fami lies like Ali and Mo ha med s. Somali participation in the state s public food assistance program doubled in the past five years.
Meanwhile, the Minneapolis School District, its So ma li stu dent en roll ment up 70 percent since 2011, launched eight class rooms with in struc tion in both Eng lish and So ma li to help new comers catch up.
Star Tribune