If you voted for Trump hoping for financial prosperity, you might want to take a look at how he is managing his transition team.
The Donald says he is going to make America great again with a system of winning where everyone is a winner and they re going to win so much that they will be utterly and completely sick of it but apparently, he can t even make it from election to inauguration without bankrupting his transition effort.WBFO reports that Kellyanne Conway the Trump campaign manager whose utter vapidness has brought us much pain and joy will speak at a $5,000 per person fundraiser intended to keep the team afloat on Thursday.
Mr. Trump held a fundraiser down in New York City a few weeks back and did raise some money, but they have I would use the word struggled to raise the private funds needed to pay these individuals who are working on behalf of the taxpayers but not being paid by the government, Congressman Chris Collins one of the first (and only) in Congress to back Trump from the very beginning and a leader in organizing the event explained.
President-elect Trump knows I am a true supporter, said Collins.
I m not asking for a job in the administration.
I m doing this because I want to help America move forward, make America great again.
This is being done because we re at a critical point in our country s future and this, like I say, is a very important piece to him, personally.
By law, campaign cash can t be used to pay for transition efforts, and people haven t exactly been enthusiastic about funding Trump s transition.
The Donald could use his own money, but he has apparently decided that it is better to cozy up to the same sort of people Trump openly pretends to hate something Erie County Democratic chair Jeremy Zellner was quick to point out.
He hasn t even taken the oath, and Donald Trump is already breaking his promises to the American people.
After campaigning on draining the swamp and a commitment to the working class, Trump is sending his campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, to Buffalo to grab big money from the same elite he railed against for a year and a half, Zellner said in a statement.
What is this money even for?
Zellner asked, criticizing Trump for putting the system to work for himself after vowing that he would self-fund his campaign.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images