Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz has taken a lot of criticism over the way she has handled our party s primary.
Some Democrats believe that she has grossly mishandled the current primary, so, of course, that s exactly what Trevor Noah wanted to talk about when she stopped by The Daily Show on Monday.Noah started off by asking her if she was happy by how the race is being run between Bernie and Hillary, because it seems like it s becoming nastier and nastier as the it progresses.
Wasserman-Schultz responded that it is drama being caused by the media and I d have to agree.
The Democratic candidates have conducted themselves as presidential candidates should, which is vastly different than the insane Republican race that has been filled with horrible attacks and hateful rhetoric.
The chairwoman went on to say: From our standpoint, I want them debating every day and I bet my counterpart Reince Priebus wants [the GOP candidates] to debate never because to debate never, because every time they open their mouth, they do something to alienate somebody else.
That is absolutely true.After she finished discussing the GOP field, Noah hit her with the question many people want to know the answer to: A lot of people feel that Bernie Sanders is being c*ckblocked by the DNC.
Is there any merit to this?
Wasserman-Schultz answered (after the crowd s cheers died down) that she is not favoring either candidate: As powerful as that makes me feel, I m not doing a very good job of rigging the outcome or blocking anyone from being able to get their message out.
The reality is that I have a job as national party chair that is one that requires a thick skin.
It requires me to be able to absorb the body blows so our candidates can stay above the fray.
Not everyone would agree with this.
A very large portion of the Democratic Party (both Hillary and Bernie supporters) are really pissed off at the way she has handled a number of things, especially our debate schedule.
Although she said earlier in the interview that she would like our candidates to debate every day, that isn t exactly true.
The candidates had to lobby for more debates because she originally only scheduled six debates and most of them were held on the weekend when they would get very little coverage.She is probably the least popular person within the Democratic Party right now and with good reason.Watch the entire interview below, including her discussion with Noah about superdelegates:Featured image via screencapture