As Donald Trump heads into the general election against Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, he is literally doing everything possible to cause a Republican revolt.
As backlash mounts after his racist comments regarding Judge Gonzalo Curiel, GOP lawmakers from Mitch McConnell to Paul Ryan have called on the nominee to soften his rhetoric, focus on the issues, and drop the subject.Speaker Ryan referred to Trump s comments as the textbook definition of racism.
McConnell called the comments stupid and requested that Trump apologize immediately.And what does Trump do?
The exact opposite of everything they recommended.In an interview with the New York Times, Trump blasted fellow Republicans for being to harsh on him: Politicians are so politically correct anymore, they can t breathe.
The people are tired of this political correctness when things are said that are totally fine.
It is out of control.
It is gridlock with their mouths.
Trump also said he expects to work well with these same Republicans because he s always gotten what he wanted.
And Trump actually thinks Ryan and McConnell s criticisms of his clearly racist sentiments are hurting the party:Mr. Trump, arms crossed tightly across his chest during lunch, was aggrieved and considered some of the Republican pushback inappropriate and unhelpful though he did not want to address specific critics.
He insisted that he is anything but a racist and, with his usual rebuttal by the numbers, stressed that voters have rewarded his outspokenness with a record haul of primary votes while Washington is held in dismal regard.He still thinks he s done nothing wrong.
And what s even worse is he thinks politicians calling out his blatant racism is considered being politically correct.
One can only imagine what doesn t constitute being politically correct in the mind of Donald Trump.What should worry the nation more?
That the Republican nominee thinks he s saying the right thing, or that there are millions of people supporting him?The billionaire blowhard also told the Times that he intends to run his campaign the same way he s been conducting it over the last several months, meaning the racism and sexism will be front and center.This is a man who cannot admit he is wrong.
This is a man who cannot apologize for saying the most vile things.
This is man who thinks he s so great that Republicans will just fall in line.Featured image via John Moore/Getty Images