If you ve been on the email list for President Obama, as well as the Democratic National Committee, then you probably woke up to an email this morning from the president.
For the most part, he s kept quiet in regards to who he would like as the person to come after him as commander-in-chief.
There s been speculation, but nothing definitive, and to be honest that s really best.
Whoever wins should win on their own merits.However, in the email sent out, President Obama told it like it is.
He gets directly to the point and lets us know that we cannot, no matter what, allow a Republican to win the White House.
Their divisive and hateful rhetoric is absolutely un-American.
Yet, more to the point, the president points out that the Democrats have two fantastic choices, and that no matter what their differences may be, they actually share more in ideology than they disagree.Here s the president s message:In a few months, I ll be heading into the voting booth to cast my vote for the next President of the United States.
And, like so many of you, I ve spent this primary observing the candidates and the parties, and what they represent.And I have to say, this has been a difficult period for the Republicans.
They re trying to figure out what they re standing for whether they will be the party of building walls and surveilling neighborhoods, whether they will be the party that enshrines discrimination in our laws.But the good news for Democrats is that we know what we believe.
We believe that climate change is real and that we must do something about it.
We believe in raising the minimum wage, and that women should be paid the same as men for doing the same job.
We believe that our laws should reflect our heritage as a nation of immigrants.
We believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect, no matter their race or religion, gender or sexual orientation.We have two fine Democratic candidates who, no matter their differences, share this same set of core beliefs that defines our party.
And in November, we re going to make sure that one of them becomes our next president.Thanks,Barack ObamaHe then asks us to pledge to vote for a Democrat this November and say you re in.
And while there will definitely be folks who disagree, because they wanted their candidate to win the primary, the bigger picture is what everyone needs to keep in mind.We simply cannot allow a Republican back into the Oval Office.
The last time we did (or rather the Supreme Court did), we ended up with two-unfunded wars, one of which was based on lies, and a recession that brought us to the brink of utter collapse.
We ve come too far to turn back now.We need to pull together for the good of the nation.
Let s listen to President Obama and follow his lead, and come November, vote blue no matter who.Featured Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images