In fly-over country, and pretty much anywhere in between the east and west coasts of America, people are sick and tired supporting the arrogant, condescending, anti-American, Trump hating, liberal actors and Hollywood is finally starting to feel the pain in their pocketbooks.
Over the weekend, the 56-year-old actor, liberal activist, and Harvey Weinstein bestie, George Clooney, told The Sunday Times Hollywood isn t a priority for him anymore.
Look, I acted for a long time and, you know, I m 56, explained Clooney.
I m not the guy that gets the girl anymore.
I shouldn t be the guy that gets the girl.
However, there s a more obvious reason why the father of 5-month-old twins has chosen to take a step back from acting.
[But], look, if somebody s got Paul Newman in The Verdict, I d jump, he said.
But there aren t that many like that.
Acting used to be how I paid the rent, but I sold a tequila company for a billion f g dollars.
I don t need money.
Back in June, Clooney confirmed that he and his business partners nightlife businessman Rande Gerber and real estate mogul Mike Meldeman sold their tequila company Casamigos for $1 billion.
Fox NewsBut are the Clooney twins and George s enormous net worth really the reason he s taking a break from acting or could it have more to do with the fact that middle-America has lost their appetite for actors who fund and use their positions to propagandize for leftist causes and politicians?George Clooney s Suburbicon that debuted over the Halloween weekend, notched one of the most dismal wide-release debuts in recent years.Despite debuting on more than 2,000 screens, Suburbicon managed just $2.8 million, making it one of Paramount Pictures worst performing wide-releases ever and marking a new box-office low for Clooney as a director and star Matt Damon.Perhaps one of Clooney s biggest problems is that Americans aren t willing to support the leftist actor, after that little prediction he made about Donald Trump s chances of winning the presidential election in 2016:The arrogant Clooney, who according to Page Six was accused by Vanessa Marquez, a former ER actress, who claims she was sexually and racially harassed daily on set and George Clooney helped blacklist her from Hollywood when she complained.George Clooney is also going to have some trouble shaking his association with accused rapist and serial sexual assaulter Harvey Weinstein, who was at one time, a close personal friend of the actor.
say if he s going to stay out of the limelight completely.
He was quick to tell The Sunday Times that the current political climate has inspired him to possibly pursue politics.
However, the Hollywood star stressed he s not ready to tackle that role.The Sunday Times Clooney won t say if he s going to stay out of the limelight completely.
He was quick to tell them that the current political climate has inspired him to possibly pursue politics.
However, the Hollywood star stressed he s not ready to tackle that role.
So many people since Trump was elected have really been pushing on me to get more involved in actual politics, specifically at the highest office, he explained.
I don t have political aspirations.
He added, I have always been involved in politics.
My father ran for Congress.
It s been in our family forever.
But, mostly, I can help in ways I actually know very well, like messaging [voters].
Our advice to Clooney would be to stick to the fake world of Hollywood because real Americans don t even want to see your movies, let alone see you making laws on our behalf