Torture is illegal in this country and the United States is bound by the United Nations and the Geneva Convention to not commit such a war crime.But Donald Trump intends to sign an executive order that would open the door for the CIA to use torture on detainees and reopen secret black sites that are used to make people disappear.According to the New York Times, the sweeping executive order would clear the way for the Central Intelligence Agency to reopen overseas black site prisons, like those where it detained and tortured terrorism suspects before former President Obama shut them down.
Republicans have been defending the use of torture since it was revealed that former President George W. Bush authorized waterboarding during his presidency.
It s a form of torture that simulates drowning.
Even Senator John McCain says that waterboarding is torture.
He would know.
He was tortured in Vietnam while Trump dodged the draft and spent his days womanizing and spending his daddy s money.Most tellingly, conservatives who say waterboarding isn t torture, like Trump propagandist Sean Hannity, cowardly refuse to be waterboarded themselves even though they claim it s not torture.The only thing standing in Trump s way is a 2015 law that Republicans can easily repeal now that banned American officials from torturing detainees.Of course, it really doesn t matter what the law is since Trump will likely ignore it anyway like he ignores everything else such as facts and reality.The United States Constitution expressly forbids the use of cruel and and unusual punishment.
Furthermore, torture does not work as an information gathering technique because the victim will say anything to make the torture stop.
So if the CIA tortures an innocent person, they would get false information no matter what they do.
And such bad information is a threat to the lives of our soldiers in the field and can lead to disastrous decisions by government.
This country should not be making decisions based on what a torture victim is telling their torturer.Using torture also opens the door for other nations to use torture against us and we would be no better than the nations that currently do use it.Donald Trump is not making America great.
He s an embarrassment who is only weakening this country every single day he is allowed to continue being president.
Our power and reputation in the world is becoming a joke that nations like Russia and China are laughing at because our loss is their gain.
America is not only losing international prestige and respect, we are being destroyed from within as Trump continues to take a jackhammer to the foundation of this country, which will destroy lives both inside and outside our nation.Resistance to Donald Trump s regime is no longer enough.
If we want to save America s soul it will take something more.
Because waiting for four years will be too late.Featured image via Wong/Getty Images