This is disgraceful and it is an insult to every American who has ever lost a loved one to gun violence.Democrats are sick and tired of Republicans offering nothing more than thoughts and prayers instead of doing something substantial to prevent mass shootings, so they took to the House floor on Wednesday to protest GOP inaction in order to force House Republicans to allow a vote on gun control bills that Senate Republicans rejected on Monday.Led by legendary civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis, Democrats were preparing to hold a sit-in when Texas congressman and NRA shill Ted Poe called for a recess.
We have been too quiet for too long, Lewis declared.
There comes a time when you have to say something.
You have to make a little noise.
You have to move your feet.
This is the time.
Lewis and 60 Democratic colleagues sat on the House floor, recited the Pledge of Allegiance, and chanted, no bill, no break.
But Republicans called for a break anyway and then they censored the sit-in by literally shutting off the video feed that allows Americans to see what is happening in the people s House.Here s the video via YouTube.Afterwards, Rep. Karen Bass told MSNBC that Republicans are running scared because they fear the NRA more than they fear the voting public.
If you are constantly shut down, if if your voice cannot be heard, then it s time to take extraordinary measures, Bass said of the sit-in.
I think the NRA s influence is very profound.
A lot of times, people think of it as an individual campaign contribution, that s not the issue.
The issue is the fact that for a lot of members, if they do not have an A from the NRA, they re concerned about the NRA running campaigns against them, supporting their opponents or running independent expenditure campaigns against them.
That s the fear.
Indeed, Republicans in the Senate fear the NRA so much that they literally rejected a measure that would have banned suspected terrorists from legally buying guns.
We re not talking about la -abiding citizens who are not being investigated for having ties to terrorist groups.
We re talking about people who may have been radicalized and are being looked at by law enforcement.
Orlando shooter Omar Mateen was a suspected ISIS sympathizer, but he was able to buy his assault rifle legally because the FBI was powerless to ban him from doing so because Republicans are apparently just fine with terrorists buying guns in America to kill Americans with.That s outrageous and should rally every voter in the country to throw Republicans out of office.
Because the GOP and their NRA puppet masters are now just as much a threat to national security as the terrorists.Featured image via screenshot