This is what legendary newsman Dan Rather thinks about Trumpcare, and it s an EPIC ass-kicking.On Monday, House Republicans officially passed a bill they dubiously refer to as the American Healthcare Act, except that is neither American nor is it healthcare.Instead, this bill repeals the Affordable Care Act, which strips tens of millions of Americans of their health insurance coverage while raising the cost of care significantly.
The bill does nothing to cover more people and does not improve healthcare one iota.
Yet Trump has praised this piece of shit bill as wonderful.
Dan Rather disagrees and wrote a scathing post on Facebook calling out Republicans and Trump for screwing over the American people.
For seven years we ve been hearing from Republicans about how horrible Obamacare was, and this was the best they could come up with?
Rather wrote.
A rush job that doesn t seem to have any new ideas or fix the core problems?
It seems to prove the point that this was always about rhetoric and not about actually trying to make health insurance either cover more people or lower costs.
Indeed, this has always been about tearing down the legacy of America s first black president.
The Affordable Care Act was not perfect but did slow down the rising costs of healthcare while making the uninsured rate drop to all-time lows.Rather then slammed Donald Trump for breaking every promise he made on the campaign trail.The ball is firmly in the court of the GOP.
They control the government, and President Trump made promises on the campaign trail about lower premiums, keeping your doctor, everyone staying insured, etc.
Basically a version of healthcare that would be better told by Hans Christian Andersen a fairy tale.
And everyone with any sense on this issue knew it.Legislation isn t a campaign speech.
It actually has to be made up of words that lead to law.
And those words have to actually tell you something about who will win and who will lose.
Who will be covered and how much it might cost.
And now that we have a GOP plan, it is getting picked apart by politicians and interest groups on all sides.
It is starting to look about as popular as ants at a picnic.In conclusion, Rather shamed Paul Ryan and Republicans for putting the hatred and racism of their rabid base over the health and lives of the millions of people who rely on the Affordable Care Act.So here we stand.
And President Trump is swinging the full weight of his Administration behind the Ryan plan.
Maybe that will be enough to arm twist skeptical Republicans.
Or maybe this effort will fall apart in spectacular failure.
Mr. Trump promised to replace and repeal Obamacare on day one.
But the Affordable Care Act (yes to some out there, that is the same as Obamacare) is still the law of the land.
And who knows how long that may last.
It likely will be dramatic political theater.
It s just a horrible shame that the stakes being toyed with are millions of Americans and their health insurance.Featured image via Matthew Eisman/Getty Images