With all the anger and nasty comments coming from Mika and Joe of MSNBC, the video below makes you wonder if the nasty Mika is just an act Ya think?
These two media wh*res couldn t be happier that now they re in the spotlight.The change has been huge Mika has called President Trump every nasty thing in the book:Hour one of the MSNBC morning show began typically enough with Mika and Joe.
The assembled gang could barely contain their glee at the prospect of damning testimony from James Comey.
That all set the stage for a typical Mika Brzezinski tirade that was honestly one of the most disgusting assaults on President Trump yet.
It s unhinged hate!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vZoUCHs22Aw I think Trump is such a narcissist, it s possible he is mentally ill in a way and this is on the table, I said it months ago and now everyone is starting to say it like it s new, and it s ok to say.
He s not well, she said.
At the very least, he s not well.
And he s so narcissistic he does not believe the rules apply to him, and that s where the ignorance label may apply because this is a man who says he can grab women anywhere because he s famous.
Then something very curious happened.Scarborough looked off camera and can be heard saying, What s that?
Wow, Then Willie Geist showed him something and the two started laughing.
Then a clearly not listening Scarborough, banged the table.
Stop right there, he laughed I need an eject button.
He posted it?
Scarborough appeared to ask someone else?Brzezinski finally realized that nobody was listening to her and demanded an explanation.
Nothing I have said is crazy, she said.
We ll talk about it in the break, said Scarborough barely able to get it out through his own laugher.The show soon went to break.
When it returned Scarborough joked about keeping it in the guard rails.
Brzezinski appeared to offer an explanation of her actions.
I am keeping it in the guard rails.
Everything I ve said you all have thought and you know and you ve said in your own way.
You re going to talk to me about a filter?
she snapped at Scarborough.