When someone else is trying to tell you that everyone else is lying in order for you to believe only them, they re probably lying to you.
That s pretty much what Fox News does on a daily basis, and that s definitely what Donald Trump does regularly.In fact, Trump has just been called out on a pretty big lie that he really can t walk back from by any means.
During a recent GOP debate on Fox News, Megyn Kelly asked Trump about the Better Business Bureau s rating of his Trump University.
Kelly alleged that the university had an D-minus rating, while Trump boasted right now it is at an A.
Here s the thing neither of those ratings are true.
While Trump tried to claim that this is the current rating of his venture into swindling people via higher learning, even faxing an alleged copy of the report to the Fox moderators during the debate The Better Business Bureau report, with an A rating for Trump University.
#GOPDebate https://t.co/ldJ5EFp3HM pic.twitter.com/1K9u09CFQQ Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2016 that report is actually from several years ago.
And according to the Better Business Bureau, they did not send a document of any kind to the Republican debate site last Thursday evening.
The document presented to debate moderators did not come from BBB that night.
In fact, according to an official statement released by the BBB:For purposes of this statement, we will refer to Trump University, which is how it is most often referred to in news stories.
There is only one BBB Business Review for Trump University, and we noted the name change to Trump Entrepreneur Initiative when it was brought to our attention by the company.1.
BBB did not send a document of any kind to the Republican debate site last Thursday evening.
The document presented to debate moderators did not come from BBB that night.2.
Trump University does not currently have an A rating with BBB.
The BBB Business Review for this company has continually been No Rating since September 2015.
Prior to that, it fluctuated between D- and A+.3.
The document posted on social media on Thursday night was not a current BBB Business Review of Trump University.
It appeared to be part of a Business Review from 2014.4.
BBB ratings are based on information we obtain about a business, including complaints received from the public.
The reporting period is three years.
Detailed information about BBB ratings is available on all 5.3 million Business Reviews on our website, bbb.org.5.
At no point did BBB change the rating of Trump University based upon a demand from anyone.
BBB followed its standard evaluation process applicable to all businesses.6.
During the period when Trump University appeared to be active in the marketplace, BBB received multiple customer complaints about this business.
These complaints affected the Trump University BBB rating, which was as low as D- in 2010.
As the company appeared to be winding down, after 2013, no new complaints were reported.
Complaints over three years old automatically rolled off of the Business Review, according to BBB policy.
As a result, over time, Trump University s BBB rating went to an A in July 2014 and then to an A+ in January 2015.7.
Trump University has never been a BBB Accredited Business.
The document handed to the debate moderators on Thursday night could not have been an actual Better Business Bureau accreditation notice for this business.Trump flat-out LIED.
Here s what the BBB actually has listed for Trump University:via Better Business BureauDoes Trump think that these facts won t make themselves known?
It certainly seems that way.This sort of purposeful lying and deceit is the last thing we need as a Commander-in-Chief.
We need to make sure Trump stays as far away from the Oval Office as possible.Featured image via Flickr/BBB