A smart presidential candidate would immediately fire their campaign manager if he were charged with battery especially if the person he assaulted was a female reporter.
But, as Donald Trump has proven time and again, he is not a smart candidate.
Instead of firing Corey Lewandowski, he called into all of the morning shows and defended him on Wednesday.
Unfortunately for him, his interview on TODAY went downhill quickly as he was met with fierce opposition from the hosts.Host Savannah Guthrie dispensed of pleasantries and immediately asked Trump is he would acknowledge that his campaign manager lied when he said he never touched reporter Michelle Fields.
The billionaire immediately started making excuses for Lewandowski.
Guthrie cut him off and said: He said he didn t touch her and the video shows he touched her.
Is that not a lie?
The Republican frontrunner responded, I really don t know.
It s not all that surprising that a man who lies more than three-quarters of the time can t tell when someone else is being untruthful.
But then he had the audacity to say: She made up this story, Savannah.
If Fields made up the story, why has his campaign manager been charged with a crime?
Clearly Trump is grasping at straws.After some more back and forth with Guthrie, Trump asked host Matt Lauer if he was going to destroy a man s life after what happened?
Lauer didn t rise to the bait, he said: Right after this incident, Corey Lewandowski tweeted that he was calling bull-blank on Ms.Fields.
He tweeted that she was delusional and he tweeted that he never touched her.
The video tape easily and plainly shows that, in fact, he did grab her and did pull her.
Whether you want to debate whether she almost fell down or not, he didn t tell the truth.
If you re President of the United States and a member of your staff, your chief of staff, goes to the American people and publicly doesn t tell the truth in the way that Corey Lewandowski hasn t told the truth, would you put up with it?
Trump responds by saying it was so minor that his campaign manager probably didn t even know it happened.
SERIOUSLY?
At that point you can hear Trump clearly getting annoyed that the hosts would not allow him to get his talking points out.
When Lauer says they will have to agree to disagree and attempts to end the interview, the Republican got really nasty and again accused the media of trying to ruin a great man.If this is his idea of a good man, I d hate to see who he thinks is bad.Watch the explosive interview below:Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images