The Democrats and their allies in the media have spent most of this entire week condemning President Trump for blaming both sides for the violent confrontations in Charlottesville, Va.
The problem is, President Trump never once condoned the actions of the KKK or the Nazi sympathizers.
Trump simply said that both sides (including the violent Antifa and Black Lives Matter protesters) were at fault.Where was the condemnation from the media and the Democrat Party when President Barack Obama eulogized the former KKK Grand Dragon Robert Byrd?
In the early 1940s, a politically ambitious butcher from West Virginia named Bob Byrd recruited 150 of his friends and associates to form a chapter of the Ku Klux Klan.
After Byrd had collected the $10 joining fee and $3 charge for a robe and hood from every applicant, the Grand Dragon for the mid-Atlantic states came down to tiny Crab Orchard, W.Va., to officially organize the chapter.As Byrd recalls now, the Klan official, Joel L. Baskin of Arlington, Va., was so impressed with the young Byrd s organizational skills that he urged him to go into politics.
The country needs young men like you in the leadership of the nation, Baskin said.The young Klan leader went on to become one of the most powerful and enduring figures in modern Senate history.
Throughout a half-century on Capitol Hill, Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) has twice held the premier leadership post in the Senate, helped win ratification of the Panama Canal treaty, squeezed billions from federal coffers to aid his home state, and won praise from liberals for his opposition to the war in Iraq and his defense of minority party rights in the Senate.
Washington PostWhen the KKK Grand Dragon died in July of 2010, President Barack Obama eulogized him, while Hillary Clinton sang the praises of the West Virginia Democrat Senator Robert Byrd she called her mentor.
During his eulogy, President Barack Obama expressed his admiration for the KKK Grand Dragon and later, the US Senator Robert Byrd: And as I reflect on the full sweep of his 92 years, it seems to me that his life bent towards justice, Obama said.
Like the Constitution he tucked in his pocket, like our nation itself, Robert Byrd possessed that quintessential American quality, and that is a capacity to change, a capacity to learn, a capacity to listen, a capacity to be made more perfect.