Well, here we are.
The last day of eight years that is the Obama presidency.
For eight years, we all saw a swarm of friends and acquaintances regurgitate the most asinine conspiracy theories about President Obama imaginable.
Whether they came from Sarah Palin or Alex Jones, right-wing looney tunes were always a far cry from the truth.
Today we have a new term for it: fake news.
But we must always remember what it truly is: conspiracy theories.Now that the great and honorable President Obama leaves office tomorrow, let s remind the economically anxious red America:Congratulations on letting yourself be played for the last 8 years!
It was quite a sight to behold, both sad and funny that teetered on the brink of near insanity.
Hopefully, this will be a learning experience to turn off the TV, quit with the fake news, and apply some common sense, no?Considering they just elected the biggest conspiracy theorist around, one shouldn t get their hopes up.Now that Trump has already broken a slew of promises, watch as red state citizens still bitterly cling to their guns and bibles while finding a way to somehow blame Obama.It is nearly impossible to record how much money, time and brain cells Republicans lost being perpetually lied to by the likes of Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, Sean Hannity, Ann Coulter, Alex Jones, Dinesh D Souza, Bill O Reilly, Michele Bachmann and the rest of the right-wing brigade.The fact that Republicans allowed their minds to be poisoned for nine years (counting the campaign in 2008) will have long lasting effects for generations to come and will continue to throughout the Trump presidency.President Obama got one thing wrong: there is a blue state America and a red state America.
But it goes so much deeper than that.
There s an alert America and an easily duped America.
There s a truthful America and an untruthful America.
Luckily, Democrats were the former, and sadly Republicans allowed themselves to be the latter.But it wasn t always like this.
In January 2009, as President Obama prepared to take office, 71 percent of America came together to support the new incumbent.
Then the power of talk radio prevailed, and America was to be utterly transformed, never to be the same again.President Obama will leave office with a 60 percent approval rating.
Perhaps a chunk of the GOP electorate realizes they have been manipulated.Going forward, Democrats and progressives alike need to be cautious of what they share and believe.
Allowing our disdain for Trump to border on conspiracy is a dangerous route to take.Be vigilant, but be smart.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images