How quickly the Democrats have forgotten about that little incident that landed Hillary in the hospital, following the death of the 4 Americans that she likely caused in Benghazi After reviewing more than 35 pages of email from top Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin, Judicial Watch observes that Abedin advised a State Department staffer that it was very important to review phone calls with Clinton because she was often confused.
Judicial Watch notes that Abedin emailed State Department Clinton aide and companion Monica Hanley from her Huma@clintonemail.com to alert her about the need to go over phone calls with Clinton.Additionally, Abedin s emails reveal repeated security breaches, with the Secretary s schedule and movements being sent and received through Abedin s non-governmental and unsecured Clinton server account, states Judicial Watch.On January 26, 2013, Abedin had the following email exchange with Hanley:Abedin: Have you been going over her calls with her?
So she knows singh is at 8?
[India Prime Minister Manmohan Singh] Hanley: She was in bed for a nap by the time I heard that she had an 8am call.
Will go over with her Abedin: Very imp to do that.
She s often confused.
The emails also provide specific details of Clinton s last day in office on January 31, 2013.
Exact times and locations of all her appointments during the day are given.
Huma Abedin s description of Hillary Clinton as easily confused tells you all you need to know why it took a federal lawsuit to get these government emails from Clinton s illegal email server, said Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton.
These emails also show that Hillary Clinton s and Huma Abedin s decision to use the Clinton email server to conduct government business was dangerous and risky.
Via: Breitbart NewsHere is Bill Clinton attempting to convince the interviewer that Hillary works out every week (not every day) and that she is the picture of health:From Edward Klein s book Unlikeable :Ed Klein, whose book Unlikeable hits shelves on Sept. 28, told the National Enquirer that the former secretary of state is battling a host of mounting health issues including blinding headaches that have frequently plagued her.
Bachmann, a former Minnesota Republican congresswoman, bowed out of the 2012 GOP primary race after reports surfaced that she was wrestling with debilitating migraine headaches including one that kept her offstage during part of a televised debate.
A Clinton friend told Klein that the Democrats current leading light might even be suffering from multiple sclerosis.Clinton herself released a letter on July 28 from a doctor who gave her a clean bill of health.Dr.
Lisa Bardack of Mount Kisco, N.Y. wrote that Clinton, 67, has completely recovered from a December 2012 concussion that left her seeing double for two months.While treating that condition, doctors diagnosed a blood clot in her sinuses, requiring long-term daily doses of the blood-thinning medication Coumadin.Bardack added that Clinton had been diagnosed with blood clots previously, in both 1998 and 2009.
But Klein s book goes far beyond talk of ordinary medical conditions.
For the first time I ve known her, she s showing self-doubt about her strength and vitality, a friend of Hillary told him, according to Radar Online.She also reportedly suffers from severe insomnia, which has sapped her energy just when she needed it most for the campaign.
She is exhausted and depressed a lot of the time, the friend said, and has turned to sleeping pills in order to rest at night.