GOP presidential frontrunner Donald Trump wants everyone to believe that he is this hyper-masculine ladies man that every guy on the planet should strive to emulate.
However, as Real Time host Bill Maher points out, nothing could be further from the truth.
Trump is actually more like a whiny brat than he is like anyone s version of a real man.Maher started out by asking the guests on his show how anyone could think Trump is masculine: Tell me what is masculine about Donald Trump.
I don t see anything masculine about this guy the most thin-skinned erratic non-logical whiny person in the world.
That s the old woman stereotype.
But I don t see what is so masculine about him.
Then, the conversation turned to the woman card insults that were directed at Hillary Clinton, and one of Maher s guests, Kelly Conway, insisted that the comment was Trump putting Clinton on notice that she better fight for the votes from the ladies, saying: Hillary Clinton s having a hard time getting these young women in the Democratic primaries.
They re voting for Bernie Sanders, so why is that?
If it were just as simple as, I m pro-choice or I m for pay inequality she d be running away with it, Bill, she would be the nominee.
Then again, though, Conway is a Ted Cruz supporter, so she clearly doesn t know much about being pro-women s rights, despite being a woman herself.After that ridiculous moment, Rob Reiner, who was also on Maher s panel, shut Conway down, saying: So she s not just playing the woman card.'
Indeed, she is not.
She is doing well because she is qualified.
Reiner later pointed out the obvious and gave Trump an epic beatdown, when he said that everything that comes out of his mouth is moronic to the Nth degree.
Maher reminded Reiner that moronic or not, Trump s idiocy is authentic.
Reiner replied, He is authentically moronic, yes.
Yes, Trump is a moron.
Hopefully, there are enough people out there who recognize this as fact and not merely opinion to keep that fool from becoming the next president of the United States.https://youtu.be/jcGyI_lRJ2oFeatured image via video screen capture