Ann Coulter will be wishing she had the chance for a second take after a bizarre interview, during which she accidentally gave Americans the greatest ever reason not to elect Donald Trump: it will be the end of her career, and the Republican Party.Coulter became near-hysterical during an interview with the The Eric Metaxas Show last week.
According to her, Trump is basically the second coming of Christ.
He is an emissary, sent by God, to save the United States of America (and humanity) from destruction.
And no, this is not satire, or an embellishment.First, she compared herself to Jesus.
Asked about her reputation for being rather a divisive figure on the right of US politics, Coulter replied: Yeah, I m divisive because I say things I believe, generally.
So does Jesus.
But her delusions of grandure also extend to her favorite candidate, Donald Trump.
We are talking about the future of not only of America but of the last genuinely Christian country on earth and thus the world.
If we lose America, it is lights out for the entire world for a thousand years.It is like the fall of Rome but, thank God, and I am not using the Lord s name in vain, I mean that absolutely literally, thank God for raising up Donald Trump and giving us a chance to save the country.Unless Donald Trump is elected, we re never going to have another Republican president.
So firstly, in the gospel according to Ann Coulter, it is prophesied that the failure of Donald Trump to win the GOP primaries would mean no Republican in the White House ever again.
As good a reason as any for kicking the trust fund tycoon out of the race.
But every cake needs a cherry on top, and this came in the form of Coulter s reaction when asked what she would do if Trump loses.She vows she would stop wasting my time with politics.
That s right America, political commentary would be Coulter-less, permanently.
Ann sees no point continuing her quest without the bright star of Trump to follow.
What is the point of talking about abortion or anything else unless you get Donald Trump in to build the wall, deport illegals, end this anchor baby nonsense, stop importing 100,000 Muslims a year, in addition to two million Third Worlders per year, It s probably time to spread the word far and wide.
After all, opportunities to kill three birds with one stone don t come along very often.
America without Trump, Ann Coulter, or a Republican in the White House.
Now, that really would be great.Featured Image via Flickr Creative Commons/Flick Creative Commons