In what may go down in history as one of the greatest fatal mistakes any president has ever made, Trump decided to sit down with NBC s Lester Holt and spill the beans on his decision to fire FBI Director James Comey mid-way through the FBI s investigation into Trump s collusion with Russia.
Even casual observers of the law know that when you stand accused of crimes, in this case going all the way up to possible treason, the best thing to do is shut up and get a lawyer.
Instead Trump just gave an unhinged confession of sorts that will be broadcast worldwide.The clip that everyone will be talking about came when Holt turned to Trump s decision to fire Comey and the reasons behind it.
A visibly angry Trump managed to debunk his own administration s lies about the circumstances behind the dismissal and instead incriminated himself.By White House versions, Trump decided to fire Comey after he was given that recommendation by the Deputy Attorney General and after realizing Comey had lost the respect of the American people and those working within the FBI.
By Trump s telling, he had already made up his mind to fire Comey long before any recommendation passed his desk and even went further: I was going to fire Comey.
My decision.
It was not A stunned Holt interrupt him to clarify: You had made decision before they had come into the room?
Trump, not realizing he may as well have been confessing to a bank robbery, nonchalantly responds in the affirmative: I was going to fire Comey.
There s no good time to do it, by the way.
That s huge, because Trump is admitting his personal grudge against Comey led directly to the FBI Director s dismissal.
His hand wasn t forced.
He just didn t like Comey or what he was looking into.But Trump, oblivious to all of this, marched on and stumbled into an even greater admission of guilt: He also claimed to have directly asked the FBI director for details about his investigation.
That s a HUGE no-no.
In one case I called him In one case he called me I actually asked him.
I said, If it s possible, will you let me know am I under investigation?'
According to Trump, Comey assured him he wasn t. (Comey, in fact, has testified under oath that Trump and his campaign are under investigation meaning Trump is lying or Comey is.
Which is more likely?)
But in either case, what Trump is confessing to is a major ethical and perhaps even legal violation.
Demanding an FBI investigator provide you the person he s investigating with up-to-date details on how the case is proceeding presents all sorts of problems.BREAKING: I was going to fire Comey anyway, Pres.
Trump tells @LesterHoltNBC in exclusive interview at White House https://t.co/MAmo1PE1RL NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) May 11, 2017Ultimately, it may have been the fact that Comey wouldn t give Trump the details on his investigation that led to his dismissal.
Sources close to Trump say the White House was furious when Comey refused to unethically hand over his planned remarks before his congressional hearing in the days before his firing.If this were a game of Clue, Trump just confessed to being in the billiard room with the candlestick.
On national television.Featured image via Twitter