When you live in a state that thinks the worst things about their school system is open bathrooms and the fact that textbooks fail to show Jesus riding a dinosaur, it s not surprising that that state s Republican Party platform would fail to pass a 5th grade grammar test.Well, it wasn t a test, so to speak, but when the Republican Party released their platform, along with its official stance against all things gay, the tiniest of grammar fails seemed to indicate that most Texans are gay.
Grammar nerds, judge for yourselves:Homosexuality Homosexuality is a chosen behavior that is contrary to the fundamental unchanging truths that has been ordained by God in the Bible, recognized by our nations founders, and shared by the majority of Texans.We ll get to the fact that this is a reprehensible and probably unconstitutional platform in a moment, but for now, let s laugh.The controversy is over the very last comma.
There s a grammatical argument going on, said Rudy Oeftering, vice president of the LGBT Republican group Metroplex Republicans, who brought the issue to my attention.
Some are insisting the use of commas in the Homosexuality plank in the platform could be interpreted as saying that the founders and the majority of Texans are gay.
Source: The New Civil Rights MovementEven if we let that slide, Texans should be embarrassed at how poorly written the sentence is to begin with.Needless to say, it s a poorly written sentence in general.
Either truths should be singular or has should be have, and nations lacks a possessive apostrophe.They should be, but anyone who s ever been subjected to Republicans on social media knows that things can get so much worse.Twitter had fun with the Texas GOP, though:Also, the Texas GOP platform would require Caitlyn Jenner and Laura Jane Grace to use men s restrooms, which seems problematic.
daveweigel (@daveweigel) May 17, 2016 The Truth is Revealed by the Texas GOP Committee @TexasGOP, The Majority of Texans are Homosexuals!
https://t.co/Dz9LAHhFrY PC Godless Liberal (@TheAntiCruz) May 19, 2016@mikesmith8026 @GregAbbott_TX if Mike Smith is the face of the @TexasGOP then they are in trouble #grammar #spelling #stopsayingthug John (@JohnsPolitics) July 25, 2015If only this was the worst thing about the Texas GOP platform.
They want to abolish the 17th Amendment of the Constitution, which allows citizens to vote for their Senators.
The Legislature wants to do it instead.They want to nullify any laws that they think are unconstitutional.
This amounts to succession.
They also want to defund and abolish the majority of government agencies and anything that might have a chance of saving the environment, but they do want a strong military to kill all the Mooslims.
Oh, and they want the gold standard back.By now, we re used to that anti-government stuff from petulant Texans, but the plank on homosexuality is the only one that addresses people directly.
Here s the entire paragraph.
See if it doesn t make you throw up in your mouth a little.
Homosexuality is a chosen behavior that is contrary to the fundamental unchanging truths that has been ordained by God in the Bible, recognized by our nation s founders, and shared by the majority of Texans.
Homosexuality must not be presented as an acceptable alternative lifestyle, in public policy, nor should family be redefined to include homosexual couples.
We oppose the granting of special legal entitlements or creation of special status for homosexual behavior, regardless of state of origin.
We oppose any criminal or civil penalties against those who oppose homosexuality out of faith, conviction, or belief in traditional values.
Source: EsquireIt doesn t take a deep reading between the lines to see that this platform is a warning to all LGBT people to stay in the closet or risk harassment and bullying, without penalty, from anyone who hides behind the Bible.Featured image via David McNew/Getty Images.