A pawn working for Donald Trump claimed that women respect and are voting for the Republican nominee in November, and S.E.
Cupp took her to the woodshed for it.During a panel discussion on CNN with Carol Costello, Cupp began by explaining the stark reality that the only voters Trump can count on right now are old white men, which is not nearly enough to catapult him to victory over Hillary Clinton.
There s no outreach anymore, Cupp said.
It s as if he s given up on them.
And I just wonder if there are enough old male guy old white guys in the country to elect him.
I don t think so.
But Trump supporter Tana Goertz, who appeared on the Donald s reality show The Apprentice, made the absurd claim that not only is Trump s campaign reaching out to women but that the effort is succeeding.
How?
Cupp asked.
No you re not, actually you re not, she continued.
There s math.
There s polls.
Indeed, polls show Trump is getting destroyed by Hillary Clinton right now and women are leading the way.
Over 70 percent of women view Trump unfavorably and if the election were held today Hillary would win a higher percentage of women than President Obama did in 2012.But Goertz continued to pretend that their effort is working, citing her role in the campaign as proof.
Oh, really?
Oh, I m sorry, I m on the campaign and I m actually part of the women s initiative, so that s weird, Goretz said, which drew a truthful jab from Cupp: There s polls that show you re not reaching women.
That s just math.
I m sorry to break it to you.
Costello jumped in and asked Goertz for specifics on how Trump is reaching out to women, and her answer left a lot to be desired.
The answer to that is he is having people like myself, his lovely daughter Ivanka, other strong Republican leaders, hold leadership conferences where we are getting out in front of large audiences of women who would like to hear why women like myself, why women like Ivanka, why other wonderful strong independent women who are making their own living, who are successful, who are highly educated, are voting and respect and are working for Donald Trump.
In short, Goertz could only name herself and Trump s daughter as examples of women who support Donald Trump.
And Cupp was quick to jump all over her for it.
That s what we call anecdotal evidence.
That s anecdotal and of course, there s some women supporting Donald Trump, that s a fact.
But to ignore the fact that 70 percent of women do not like Donald Trump and that he has a huge gap between him and Hillary Clinton among women voters is a fantasy land.
Here s the video via YouTube.Trump s campaign is still in denial that they are getting their asses handed to them in the polls.
And the fact that Trump and his supporters are so delusional that they really believe women are coming around to supporting him is further proof that Trump s campaign lives in the fantasy land Cupp mentioned.Featured image via screen capture