Donald Trump is a misogynist.
We all know that.
Now, he and his GOP cronies have the bully pulpit of the federal government from which to systematically dismantle women s right.
Of course, this means that the all-important Supreme Court decision, Roe v. Wade, which guarantees the right to choose what to do with one s own body, is at grave risk right now.Ohio has already passed a so-called heartbeat bill, in which abortions would be banned should the doctor be able to detect a fetal heartbeat.
This can often happen as early as six weeks into a pregnancy before many women even know they are pregnant.
There are no exceptions in this bill for victims of rape and incest, either.Now, women s civil rights lawyer Lisa Bloom is sounding the alarm about just how much trouble we as women could be in under Trump with regards to reproductive care.
Bloom says we are in, quote, Code Red territory on this one.
Here is the video of her appearance on MSNBC s AM Joy regarding this dangerous eventuality:.
@LISABLOOM: It's CODE RED in terms of our need to fight to protect women's rights now #heartbeatbill #AMJoy https://t.co/CB5JQsDzJG AM Joy w/Joy Reid (@amjoyshow) December 11, 2016My fellow women and our awesome allies, the time to fight back is NOW.
We cannot afford to be afraid to speak out.
We cannot afford to sit on our thumbs.
Women s rights are about to be rolled back 100 years under the misogynistic leadership of the Republican Party and Donald Trump.
Hopefully, Democrats in the Senate do just what the GOP did to President Obama, and refuse to confirm any judges that do not respect a woman s right to choose.
We can also hope that Republican women who are appalled at the treatment of rape and incest victims refuse to confirm these judges as well.We are mightier as a people than these bullies in the federal government.
This was a fight that we thought was over, but it is only just beginning.
Keep fighting, for the lives of women and girls everywhere depend upon it.Featured image via screen capture from Twitter