Oh, this is so ridiculous and so bogus that the intimidated researchers aren t handing over research documents and communications to the Republicans.
If they want to preserve the integrity of the scientific process then they should be open and honest.
Being secretive about results of research just shows the global warming scam is junk science they re trying to keep under wraps.
The federal government s chief climate research agency is refusing to give House Republicans the detailed information they want on a controversial study on climate change.
Citing confidentiality concerns and the integrity of the scientific process, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) said it won t give Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas) the research documents he subpoenaed.
At the center of the controversy is a study that concluded there has not been a 15-year pause in global warming.
Some NOAA scientists contributed to the report.
Skeptics of climate change, including Smith, have cited the pause to insist that increased greenhouse gas emissions, mostly from burning fossil fuels, are not heating up the globe.
Smith, the chairman of the House Science Committee, vehemently disagreed with the study s findings.
He issued a subpoena for communications among the scientists and some data, leading to charges from Democrats that he was trying to intimidate the researchers.
Late Tuesday, NOAA provided Smith with some more information about its methods and data but refused to give Smith everything he wanted.
NOAA spokeswoman Ciaran Clayton said the internal communications are confidential and not related to what Smith is trying to find out.
More recently, a famous physicist came out against the global warming scam: WOW!
WORLD S TOP PHYSICIST AND DEMOCRAT: Obama Backs Wrong Side In War On Climate Change , Follow The Money, Carbon Does Far More Good Than Harm Dr.Freeman Dyson, himself a longstanding Democrat voter, is especially disappointed by his chosen party s unscientific stance on the climate change issue.
It s very sad that in this country, political opinion parted [people s views on climate change].
I m 100 per cent Democrat myself, and I like Obama.
But he took the wrong side on this issue, and the Republicans took the right side.
Part of the problem, he says, is the Democrats conflation of pollution (a genuine problem) with climate change (a natural phenomenon quite beyond mankind s ability to control).
Via: Gateway Pundit