Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) has been a thorn in the side of Democrats ever since Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State.
He blamed her for many things that clearly were beyond her control, most notably the attacks on the compound in Benghazi, Libya, that wound up taking the lives of multiple America diplomats.
After that attack, Chaffetz, who chairs the House Oversight Committee, spent more than two years and millions in taxpayer money to keep investigating Hillary each time coming up empty because she did nothing wrong.
He even said he had investigations lined up in the event that Hillary took the White House.
Well, now that Trump is president and there are no more Clinton investigations to keep his base salivating, Chaffetz has announced that there will be no 2018 Congressional race for him.Chaffetz took to Facebook Wednesday morning to announce his decision, and, of course, he insists that it was not a politically motivated move: After long consultation with my family and prayerful consideration, I have decided I will not be a candidate for any office in 2018.
For those that would speculate otherwise, let me be clear that I have no ulterior motives.
I am healthy.
I am confident I would continue to be re-elected by large margins.
I have the full support of Speaker Ryan to continue as Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
That said, I have made a personal decision to return to the private sector.
Here is the embed of the full Facebook post:Despite what Chaffetz is saying regarding his reasons for not running again, it s likely a pack of lies.
After all, he made it his mission to destroy Hillary Clinton, and made it clear that he would continue to try and get her on something, anything were she to be elected president.
However, now that we have Trump as president instead of Hillary, Chaffetz is choosing to turn a blind eye to all of Trump s scandals.
He refuses to look into Trump s conflicts of interest, is mum on the Russia investigation for the most part, and has nothing to say on Trump s lies and obvious character flaws and deficiencies.
In short as long as the president is a Republican, he can trample the law into pieces all he wants.This stance would have likely been problematic for Chaffetz in the 2018 Congressional race, to say the least.
His state largely loathed Trump, and the alternative conservative candidate and #NeverTrump media star Evan McMullin got a good chunk of the vote.
In short Chaffetz would have been primaried, and would have likely suffered a crushing defeat there.
Instead of risking that, he is choosing to bow out early, and use lame excuses to do so.All I can say is good riddance, you nasty little tool.
We won t be missing you.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images