Is there a worse crime than being a white male in America?
Unless you re a gay male, you have no victim protection.
So technically, in a liberals world your life has no real value.
It s hard to argue with these bright Harvard students who say things like, Your life ain t worth it.
I m pretty sure the student featured in this video s parents (if they had to pay the $57,000 tuition tab that privileged kids parents have to pay) wouldn t be too happy about his clearly underdeveloped language skills.
Why does white life have value?
Our argument is that we should never affirm white life.
So, should he kill himself?
I don t see why not.
Why should he do that?
How does that help?
It s ethical.
How is it ethical?
We all have some form or another of privilege.
Why does that mean we should kill ourselves Because you have WHITE privilege.
Why does having white privilege necessarily mean I should kill myself?
Why shouldn t I like struggle against the structure thing?
Struggling against the structure means putting yourself on the line, putting your body on the line.
Do it.
Affirmative suicide, I mean, it s one little step in the right direction Watch: White life is wrong, Feliciano was quoted as saying by Infowars.com.
Our argument is that we should never affirm white life.
White life is based off black subjugation.
When a white debater asked Feliciano whether he should commit suicide, Feliciano said I don t see why not, it s ethical.
When the white debater suggested that it might be better to remain alive and fight the social forces that promote white privilege, Feliciano rejects the notion.Ironically, the debate topic was supposed to be about renewable energy.
The black debaters simply chose to point out their opponents skin color and begin advocating genocide, reported InvestmentWatchdogBlog.com.
They expressly stated that these were their sincere beliefs, not just an argument to win a debate.
Feliciano and Davis are not some anonymous student crackpots posing as serious debaters.They form a respected two-person debate team that took second place at the 2013 Cross-Examination Debate Association Nationals, according to Infowars.com.Feliciano also acts as an instructor at the Eddie Conway Liberation Institute, an annual debate camp at Coppin State University that reportedly instructs high school students on debate strategy and radical thought, Infowars reported.The institute is named after former Black Panther Party member Eddie Conway, who was convicted and imprisoned for 44 years for his involvement with the 1970 murder of a Baltimore police officer.
Via:EAG News