There s no shortage of con artists and assorted corrupt types surrounding Donald Trump.
After all, he s just run the biggest con the American people have ever seen, so naturally he d flock to like-minded individuals.
Among them is a preacher from Florida by the name of Paula White.
This woman s scam is a good one if you re in it for the money.
She is a seed faith preacher.
This ideology promotes the idea that the more money you give the church, the more blessings will come your way.
It is formally known as prosperity gospel.
White also will be the one who delivers the prayer at Trump s inauguration.White runs the New Destiny Christian Center as the Senior Pastor.
She has also previously been under investigation by the United States Senate for fraudulent activities being run out of her so-called church.
White begs for cash via her church s website, promising goodness from God, saying: When we receive your seed we have a very powerful Word from the Lord that we will send to you.
We want to show our Gratitude to you and to help you grow in your Attitude of Gratitude.
If you believe that, I have a bridge in Brooklyn I d like to sell you.
This woman is a con artist, just like Donald Trump.
Apparently, Trump has been in Paula White s corner for years even when she and other preachers were being grilled by the Senate Finance Committee for scamming gullible followers out of boatloads of cash.
Trump said of White when this was going on back in 2007: Paula White is not only a beautiful person, both inside and out, she has a significant message to offer anyone who will tune in and pay attention.
She has amazing insight, the ability to deliver that message clearly, as well as powerfully.
If you had any doubts that Trump and the people around him are nothing more than fraudulent charlatans, let them be washed away now.
Here s just another piece of evidence out of many that we re about to have a literal con man running the nation for the next four years.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images