Republican front runner Donald Trump has ignited a media sh*tstorm with his recent comments about abortion.
On Wednesday, the GOP candidate decided to announce that women seeking abortions should be punished during an interview with MSNBC host Chris Matthews.
Although he later tried to furiously backpedal in a pathetic attempt to control the damage and bad press, it was too late.
Trump is being blasted left and right, and now his supporters are rallying around him and going nuts trying to defend their misogynistic, sexist idol.
Of course, they re more than willing to place the blame on everyone and everything but the business mogul.One of Trump s devout defenders is political commentator Scottie Nell Hughes, who went on CNN on Thursday night to blame liberal media for using abortion as a trap to trick The Donald into saying something stupid (not that he needs any help).
In an interview with Wolf Blitzer, Hughes claimed that Trump had further clarified his statement about a punishment for women who got abortions, but Blitzer was ready to call her out.
He reminded her that Trump had completely flip-flopped when he said, No, it was a real reversal.
Hughes replied: The one thing we have learned is that the liberal mainstream media that have been anti-Republican and anti-conservatives for so long use the issue of the pro-life/pro-choice abortion issue to trap Republicans, because there s usually no way to win.
Making a not-so-subtle jab at Trump s blatantly obvious inexperience as a politician, Blitzer pointed out that Trump should have been prepared to answer questions about abortion.
Hughes remained in denial and completely dismissed that valid point, calling Matthews inquiries on abortion hypothetical gotcha questions.
Hughes said that at the end of the day, all that matters is that Trump claims he s pro-life (which is yet another thing he s flip-flopped on over the years).
She said, What more do you need to know ?You can watch the interview below: Featured image via Getty Images / Scott Olson