Considering the field that Megyn Kelly is in, one would think she would be critical of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
On the other hand, his critics are often murdered, especially journalists.
Conservatives don t seem to have a problem with the Russian leader, often times during former President Barack Obama s time in office, they praised Putin while slamming Trump s predecessor.
Donald Trump has repeatedly praised Putin, even to the point of defending the Russian President for murdering journalists.
Trump did that at least twice.Kelly, the former Fox News host who is not besties with Trump, said that Putin was very personable when the cameras were off during her exclusive interview on NBC News with the Russian leader..@megynkelly: Vladimir Putin was very personable when the cameras were off https://t.co/1iV3WKNgLC pic.twitter.com/TbNhjDzDDd TODAY (@TODAYshow) June 4, 2017Twitter users questioned Kelly s praise of the murderous thug.
I m glad an autocratic murdering despot was nice to you, @megynkelly cool beans , one Twitter user said.I m glad an autocratic murderering despot was nice to you, @megynkelly cool beans Por Sum Zingis On Me (@edrhew) June 4, 2017 Thugs can be personable.
Focus, Blondie, another Twitter user wrote.Thugs can be personable.
Focus, Blondie.
???
Trina (@RedVinoPlease) June 4, 2017 So is Satan.
So is Satan Donovan Burnett (@DBurnettShow) June 4, 2017 Stop normalizing him.
Putin is a murderer !
His personality is fake .
This is one of the most ridiculous tweets I've read in a long time .
Stop normalizing him !
P. Jeanne DiJoseph (@PJeannie) June 4, 2017 Just stop.
Megyn, just stop.
You're ridiculous.
pic.twitter.com/KpiVYj98xY banegirl (@TheRealBaneGirl) June 4, 2017 What a gullible headline.
I'm sure, he's running the largest, most sophisticated propaganda machine on Earth.
What a gullible headline.
Emily Timm (@timm_emily) June 4, 2017 So was Ted Bundy.
So was Ted Bundy.
Trenta Poppins (@MaPoStormborn) June 4, 2017 Embarrassing.
This is just embarrassing.
Dawn McCallan (@DawnMacc) June 4, 2017How personable?How personable?
Like locker room Trump personable?
Or like Lucifer, Dark Lord of the Netherworld personable?
???
Jr A.
(@Skitzo72) June 4, 2017Such a charming fellow that Putin is.Malaysia airliner shot down Ukraine.Yeah Megyn, Putin is a charming fellow.
pic.twitter.com/wTCRUirb1D Stephen James (@JSCveritas) June 4, 2017 a disgrace.
It's a disgrace that you act like this murderous enemy of civil society is just some nice guy you had to tea.
Salome Strangelove (@salstrange) June 4, 2017 Murderers and criminals.
So are a lot of murderers and criminals ChristineP (@christine13160) June 4, 2017 Nice job buddying up to a tyrant.
Putin instilled his puppet as POTUS and frequently has his opponents murdered but what a charmer!
Nice job buddying up to a tyrant, @NBC.
Eric Lane (@ericlane) June 4, 2017The added bonus is that he didn t murder anyone.Added bonus he didn't poison anyone.
RickChance (@Chancedefiant) June 4, 2017 A murderous dictator.
Unm wow, so now we Are personalizing a murderous dictator?
So much for journalistic integrity.
Dawn McCallan (@DawnMacc) June 4, 2017 So was Hitler.
Yeah.
So was Hitler Reality (@foamie75) June 4, 2017Putin has a high body count.Says a former Fox mouthpiece about the leader of a hostile foreign country whose opposition leaders and journalists KEEP ENDING UP DEAD.
?
DisceAutDiscede (@disceautdisced1) June 4, 2017So personable.
Unless you are a journalist or a govt dissenter.
Then you need to avoid eating anything and balconies.
#CovertCovfefe (@johnnymags) June 4, 2017Putin tried to defend his earlier remarks to Kelly in which he claimed that patriotic hackers could have interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.Putin insisted that the hackers could have come from anywhere and then they could have shifted the blame to make it look like Russia was behind the hacking.Trump, Russia s pick for president, openly called for Russians to hack Hillary Clinton s email account.
I will tell you this, Russia: If you re listening, I hope you re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing, Trump said at a news conference in Florida at the time.
I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.
We re sure it s all just a coinky dink, though.Featured image via screen capture