If Donald Trump continues to travel to Mar-a-Lago in Florida at the current pace, he ll spend more taxpayer dollars on vacations than President Obama ever did.Throughout President Obama s eight years in office, conservatives constantly complained every time he went on vacation or played golf.
They whined that it was a waste of money and that Obama was lazy.In total, President Obama took 28 vacations spanning 217 days, which cost a total of $90 million.It should be noted that despite conservative bitching, President Obama took less vacation days than his Republican predecessor.
George W. Bush took 88 vacations spanning over 500 days.And Donald Trump is going to surpass both of them very quickly.Only days after the election, Trump indicated that he intends to spend most of his weekends at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida where he also has a golf course.
He also wants to spend lots of time at Trump Tower in New York and his golf course in New Jersey.Trump has already taken three trips to Mar-a-Lago since taking office four weeks ago and those three trips alone cost taxpayers $10 million.Assuming that Trump keeps up this routine and pace, he will end up taking 39 trips to Mar-a-Lago in 2017 at a whopping cost of $130 million to taxpayers, which means Trump will outspend President Obama within a single year.
Furthermore, Trump would easily surpass Obama s number of vacation days.
At the current pace, he would end up taking 320 vacations days in four years, and that s not counting other vacations Trump may end up taking.
If he starts going to Florida every weekend he would surpass 400 days.
And if he plays golf every time he goes to Mar-a-Lago he will have played more rounds of golf in two years than than President Obama did during his first term.If Trump does this every year, the cost to taxpayers will be a monstrous $520 million after four years.
That s right, over half a billion dollars.Trump supporters and conservatives will argue that Trump is working during his vacations, but President Obama worked during his vacations, too, yet conservatives never stopped whining about his vacations.And just because Trump might be working a little during his vacations, it doesn t justify the cost to taxpayers.
And with all the chaos Trump is causing across the nation and around the world, he shouldn t be going on vacation at all right now.Russia is getting more aggressive.
North Korea is firing missiles.
America is on course for a major confrontation with China.
Millions of Americans are about to lose their healthcare.
Immigrants are being rounded up.
And America s creditors are dumping us because Trump has made investment here too much of a risk.
Chaos and infighting plague the White House.
Yet Trump is going on lavish vacations to his Florida estate on the taxpayer s dime while he makes everyone else suffer.It s outrageous and conservatives are hypocrites if they defend Trump.Featured image via Ian MacNicol/Getty Images