Using a pimp for pedophiles as a witness is something only a sleazy and desperate lawyer would do.But former NYC mayor and Trump supporter Rudy Giuliani did it anyway during an appearance on CNN to defend Donald Trump against accusations of sexual assault and Jake Tapper was quick to burn him for it.From the start, it was clear that Giuliani is a hypocrite because while he absolutely believes the women who have accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct, he refuses to believe the women who have come forward to say the the Republican nominee sexually assaulted them.
So far, nine women made such claims about Trump.
But Giuliani thinks they are all liars.
Do you believe every one of these women is lying?
Tapper asked.
No, I believe my friend Donald Trump when he tells me he didn t do it, Giuliani replied.
I ve never seen him do anything like that.
Well, of course you haven t, Rudy.
You ve only been kissing Trump s ass since April.
Trump has been groping women for decades as a private citizen.Giuliani then conceded that he hasn t investigated the women s claims but he attacked Jessica Leeds in particularly by bringing up an alleged witness to the alleged groping on an airplane in the 1980s.
There is an independent witness who says it s not true, Giuliani declared triumphantly.But a disgusted Tapper crushed Giuliani s attempt to defend Trump by pointing out that Anthony Gilberthorpe was a self-claimed pimp for pedophiles who delivered underage boys to British politicians, hardly a credible witness and certainly not the kind of witness an attorney worth their salt would want on the stand.Tapper then cornered Giuliani about his support of the women who have accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct, noting that Donald Trump has paraded these women around and continues to talk about sexual assault even as his surrogates complain that the media hasn t moved on to covering something else.Hypocritically, instead of answering Tapper, Giuliani did just that and complained about the media and insisted that they move on from focusing on the sexual assault allegations against Trump.
In fact, Giuliani was so desperate to stop talking about the sexual assault allegations that he rambled on and on for the remainder of the interview about other stuff Trump has talked about.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump should have to answer for these allegations all the way through Election Day and so should his supporters.
These are serious accusations that have a lot of credibility considering Trump has openly bragged about groping women whenever he wants even if they don t want him to do so.And Trump has only made things more difficult for himself by bringing in Bill Clinton s accusers and trash talking the women who have come forward against him.Republicans have also made this more of a story by continuing to support Trump despite his comments and behavior.So really, the only one Giuliani should blame for the media circus surrounding Trump is Trump himself.But again, that would require Giuliani taking his lips off of Trump s ass first.Featured Image: Screenshot