Republican strategist Cheri Jacobus, who has appeared as a pundit on Fox News, filed a $4m defamation lawsuit on Monday in New York City against Donald Trump and his campaign (shocker).
The suit alleges that the frontrunner and his campaign manager, woman batterer Corey Lewandowski, engaged in defamation aimed with the purpose of making her an object lesson, to those who might question Trump and his fitness for office, to incite a virtual mob against her, to destroy her reputation, and to bully her.
The bullying tactics occurred after Jacobus criticized the frontrunner on TV and Twitter.
Jacobus approached the Trump campaign with the hopes of obtaining a job as communications director, but decided against it after finding Lewandowski unprofessional and a powder keg, meaning a dangerous or volatile person or situation.Well, Trump didn t like that.
After she made her criticism public, Trump sent off the first hate-tweet, calling Jacobus a real dummy.
When Jacobus attempted to reign in the drama with a cease-and-desist letter, the frontrunner took to Twitter yet again, referring to her as a Major loser, with zero credibility.
Lewandowski then went on MSNBC to discredit Jacobus, saying: This is the same person, I ll just tell ya, who came to the office on multiple occasions trying to get a job from the Trump campaign, and when she wasn t hired clearly she went off and was upset by that.
After that, Jacobus starting getting threatening, harassing hate mail from Trump supporters, and Fox News stonewalled the strategist.
Jacobus also shows that Trump, who is friends with Roger Ailes, helped convince the network to drop her from appearing on their cable news programs.
According to Jacobus, Lewandowski showed her the email where Ailes promised to be on Trump s side, not hers.So, Donald Trump resorted to bullying and intimidation to silence a female strategist who didn t agree with him?
I m shocked I tell you, shocked!
And of course the Trump campaign brushed off the lawsuit as just another frivolous lawsuit and an attempt to gain notoriety at the expense of Donald Trump.
Much like everything else, the Trump campaign just brushes everything off, and his band of backwards thinking supporters will eat it up.
Featured image via Flickr