In the wake of the worst mass shooting in American history committed by an ISIS sympathizer, Donald Trump appeared on Fox News to accuse President Obama of helping the terrorists.After hearing that 50 people were massacred at an LGBT night club in Orlando on Saturday night, Trump s callous first reaction was to give himself a pat on the back for being right about terrorism.
You know, because not just any idiot can predict that an attack of some kind will happen in the future.But on Monday morning during an interview on Fox & Friends, Trump crossed the line by actually suggesting that President Obama is not doing anything to fight terrorism and may be aiding the terrorists.
He doesn t get it or he gets it better than anybody understands.
It s one or the other, Trump said.
And either one is unacceptable.
We re led by a man who is a very look, we re led by a man that either is, is not tough, not smart, or he s got something else in mind.
And the something else in mind, you know, people can t believe it.
People cannot they cannot believe that President Obama is acting the ways he acts and can t even mention the words radical Islamic terrorism.
There s something going on.
It s inconceivable.
Here s the video via YouTube.President Obama doesn t need to say words to defeat ISIS.
Despite what Trump says, Obama has been fighting ISIS for a long time now even as Republicans in Congress refuse to declare war on the terrorist organization they paved the way for in the first place by invading Iraq back during the Bush Administration.
Claiming that President Obama is in league with the terrorists is just absurd and outrageous.Airstrikes killed a top ISIS leader in March, which was only the second such strike to take out a member of ISIS that month.
A strike also took out an ISIS commander in Iraq in January and yet another strike killed an ISIS leader in Libya last November.And that s only four of the many such airstrikes that have dealt major blows to ISIS and their operations.But according to Trump, President Obama only has to say three words and ISIS will somehow magically disappear off the face of the planet, thus demonstrating once again that Trump is completely unqualified to be president.
Because while he is congratulating himself for a prediction that any three-year-old could make and running his mouth about what President Obama should say to defeat ISIS, our commander-in-chief has been taking action.
If Trump really wants to blame someone for not being hard on ISIS he should blame the Republicans in Congress for not exercising their power to declare war.
The president can only do so much without Congress and Republicans are sitting on their hands instead of doing their jobs.Featured image via Christopher Furlong/Getty Images