So, if the climate scare-mongers can t frighten the adults, the next logical step is to heap angst on their children who then frighten (or better, pester) the adults into action.
You need to read this ENTIRE story and watch the video near the end of the page.
Finally, the United Nations Environmental Programme is spending our money to come out with scary children s fairy tales about global warming.
Sedena, the Mother of the Sea, is featured in the UN Environmental Programme s latest children s book on global warming entitled Tore and the Town on Thin Ice .
This book tells the story of a young boy named Tore who lives in a village in the Arctic and is upset when he loses a dog sled race.
The Mother of the Sea appears in Tore s dream and informs him that the thinning ice, which caused his loss in the dog sled race, was due to man-made global warming.
But that is nothing compared to what it is doing to the Mother of the Sea s own dominion and to all living creatures.
She sends an owl, a polar bear, and a whale to scare poor Tore into thinking that they will become extinct during his lifetime and that our world is melting from climate changes, mostly caused by those bad people in rich countries who are spewing gases in the air from their huge cars , air conditioners and the like.
In the words of the whale, children like Tore should get good and angry .
The book ends with a so-called facts section, blaming climate change on the Industrial Revolution in Europe and North America and singling out the United States in particular for its contribution to the production of carbon dioxide added by humans.
It claims that climate change will hit the poorer countries hardest while at the same time saying that New York along with other coastal areas could disappear beneath the waves.
A psychotherapist, a true believer in the Climate Church, nevertheless argues that children should not be targeted by the climate activists it is not good for the children and it is not good for the cause.
I wish she could also see that her cause is a phony one, but I m glad she is against harming children in the name of it:Climate change community groups often want to work with children.
We must get into the schools, says someone and there is a nod of agreement.
It s worth thinking about the psychology behind this.
Why is this idea so appealing?
And why is it so damaging?The appeal is clear.
It s fun working with children: they re responsive, creative and willing.
And it s certainly easier than working with white-van-man, frequent fliers or the oil industry.
The reasons given for working with children are usually two-fold:We need to influence them while they are young.
If they understand the issue and the effect of their actions, they will grow up finding it natural to care for the environment.
It s a good way of getting to their parents.
Who can resist their child pleading with them to change the lightbulbs because it will save a polar bear?Both reasons are suspect.
The first reason assumes that instruction at best participatory, at worst didactic is the route either to action or to the inculcation of positive values towards the environment.
There is little evidence for this.
We know that information based campaigns have a limited impact with adults, so why should we expect children to be different?
As for values these tend to be formed through experience, relationship, identification and social systems, not through information.
If the school has an influence on values it will be through its culture, ethos and the relationships and experiences it offers not through the information it provides.Both reasons also raise direct ethical questions.
It is easy to engage the sympathies of children with stories of damage to the natural world and images of suffering animals they will identify with.
But children have very little power.
Of all the sections of society who might make an impact on climate change, they have the least influence, the least agency, the least leverage.
There is a real risk of raising levels of anxiety amongst children that will not only cause distress in the immediate term but will in the long term lead to those children turning against the environmental causes we hoped they might espouse.When I was 10 a speaker came to my school and told us about food shortages and starvation in the third world.
I rushed home and explained to my parents that we needed to grow more food.
I couldn t understand why they wouldn t accede to my idea of banding together with the neighbours and turning all our back gardens into a corn field.
I was left haunted by images of dying children, guilt at my good fortune and the anxiety that feeds on powerlessness.
In adolescence I became determinedly indifferent to the appeals from 3rd world charities.
As an adult I have continued to find them difficult to relate to.We need to ask what happens to the child whose parents are indifferent to their attempts to get them to act?
What happens to the child who is overwhelmed by stories of disasters he or she cannot influence?But the deeper question is why are adults so keen to focus on children?
Why concentrate on the weakest, least influential members of society and ask them to act?Got kids?
Watched as they ve been indoctrinated sorry, I mean educated about global warming over the last decade?
Then you ll know what I mean.
They come home from school moodily depressed about the future of our planet and, of course, what that means for their own lives.
What s the point?
We re all doomed!
Why study?
Why bother getting an education?
It s futile.
Sea levels are rising.
Temperatures are soaring.
Soon we ll all be living in a polluted hell-hole constantly battling the equivalent of the Queensland floods or the Victorian bushfires year upon year.
And you want me to waste what precious time I have left studying accountancy?
It s called nihilism, and it s even more terrifying to witness in your teenage children than hickeys, drunkenness, truancy, insolence, idleness, bad marks or bullying.
Nihilism, or the conviction that life on Earth is totally pointless, saps the young of their energy, their ambition, and their will to strive, struggle and triumph.
Extract from an online article by Rowan Dean, 17 August 2011.A postgraduate student in Oxford gets it This should be a wake-up call for all the purveyors of the politics of fear .
Children are, naturally, relatively powerless and likely to feel overwhelmed by the challenges facing mankind.
But as adults, we should have a greater sense of our own collective power to master problems and build better societies.
Not only does jumping from one panic to another, each with disastrous consequences mobile phone radiation, BSE, SARS, crime, paedophilia, terrorism, bird flu, global warming diminish our own sense of agency, by turning childhood dreams of utopia into nightmarish visions of the future it is teaching the citizens of the future all the wrong lessons.
This is one of the best videos we have seen on climate change.
There are 5 parts to this series.
This is Part 1:An excellent, easy to understand piece about the TRUTH surrounding phony climate cooling, warming, change:The pollution resulting from the rapid uncontrolled post-war industrial expansion spawned two environmentalist movements.
One group primarily composed of physical scientists and engineers set about to directly address the pollution problems by developing facilities and legislative controls that have to date virtually eliminated industrial contamination of soil, water and air.A second group primarily composed of activists with little or no physical science background did nothing but protest against industry without ever having addressed a single environmental problem for which they created a solution.While the physical scientists and engineers worked quietly with industry solving the environmental problems, the ideology driven environmentalist activists, used dramatic alarmist rhetoric to gain media control and have become a dominant political force capable of forcing their self-serving ideologies on the general public with impunity.The Earth entered a cooling phase in 1942, and by 1970 the environmentalists found a way to blame this cooling on industrial expansion.
The concept was that particulate matter from fossil fuel usage was blocking energy from the sun giving this cooling effect.
This concept was incorporated as a parameter in the crude climate models of the time, and the predictions from models run by James Hansen in 1971 projected fifty years of further cooling from the increased use of fossil fuels.Only four years later, and in spite of the continued increase in fossil fuel usage global cooling came to an end, proving that the models did not have a proper physical basis for relating fossil fuel usage to global cooling.By 1988, after 13 years of global warming the ideological environmentalists developed a new tact for blaming fossil fuels.
The British Government had embarked on a political campaign to promote their nuclear industry and attack the powerful coal unions by creating alarmist scenarios of runaway global warming resulting from CO2 produced by coal and other fossil fuels.
This was entirely political in nature with absolutely no scientific backing, but it did make the perfect weapon for the environmentalists to promote their anti energy (and anti humanity) ideology.
All that was needed was some scientific justification.As was done in 1971, climate models which were now far more sophisticated provided the science backing.
Instead of blaming fossil fuels for blocking incoming solar radiation, the models removed this parameter and replaced it with a newly contrived parameter that now related global warming to the effect of fossil fuel sourced CO2 on the outgoing thermal radiation from the Earth.This model also produced by James Hansen, projected warming for the next century because of the fossil fuel CO2 emissions that were increasing at a continued accelerated rate.
As with the 1971 model, the 1988 model was proven to be false when global warming ended after 1998 even as CO2 emissions continued to rise at unprecedented rates.
To make matters worse since 2002, the Earth has been cooling making all of the projections clearly in the wrong direction.By even the most basic standards of ethical science, models that first predict cooling from fossil fuel usage that are discredited just four years later when warming occurs with increased usage, and then predict warming from fossil fuel usage and are again discredited ten years later as cooling reoccurs with increased usage, would be declared absolutely invalid; but when ideology is involved science protocol is totally abandoned.Impact 2009As a result of the alarmist predictions of the 1988 climate models of Hansen, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was formed under the auspices of the United Nations.
This body was given a science mandate to investigate the possibility of human effects on climate to determine if the projections of Hansen were valid.The true nature of the IPCC was not that of a science based body, but that of a political body to give scientific legitimacy to false alarmist predictions in order to meet a political self serving environmentalist agenda.
Since its inception, the IPCC has used its position of authority to promote its agenda to the detriment of science and even more importantly to the detriment of the global population.From 1997 to 1998 the average global temperature increased by over half a degree C and from 1998 to 1999 the average global temperature fell by over half a degree C. This was due to an extraordinary el Ni o and has nothing to do with either the greenhouse effect or CO2 emissions (CO2 emissions increased from 24.0gt/y in 1997 to 24.2gt/y in 1998 to 24.4gt/y in 1999).An honest scientific body would have made some sort of statement to this effect, but the IPCC in their 2001 Third Assessment Report and particularly in their Summary for Policy Makers for this report not only made no mention of the fact that from 1998 to 1999 the Earth cooled more than it had ever cooled during the entire global temperature record, but emphatically stated that from 1997 to 1998 the Earth had warmed more than it ever had.This is an absolute violation of science ethics because the policy makers were purposely misinformed with alarmist rhetoric.
This same 2001 report also stated that the observed global warming for the past century which they stated was attributable to CO2 emissions was measured at 0.60 C + 0.20 C. This is only 0.006 C per year making the el Ni o temperature spike over eighty times greater than what the IPCC stated was attributable to CO2 emissions, so it is clear that this was stated for the purpose of politically motivated alarmism and not to properly convey information in a scientifically justified manner.The 2001 IPCC report also included the infamous MBH98 Hockey Stick temperature proxy which used physical temperature measurement data up to and including 1998 which gave the alarmist impression of twice the 20th century warming because 1999 was not included.The Hockey Stick graph became the pivotal evidence that convinced governments around the world to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, that has resulted in such detrimental effects to the global population and global economy.In this regard the el Ni o temperature spike of 1998 may be considered the most significant climate event in recent history, and when one considers the hundreds of millions of the world s poorest people starving because of Kyoto biofuel initiatives that has literally taken their food away and made it into Kyoto friendly fuel, this el Ni o might also be considered the most tragic climate event as well.Through diligence and hard work physical scientists were able to correct most of the environmental problems that had been created through industrialization, but there is no scientific effort capable of undoing the damage caused to the global population by the ideological environmentalists.
This issue is now out of the hands of the scientists and the only salvation for the global population is the media who must readopt their lost journalistic integrity and expose the true nature of this global fraud.