Fox News has long since stood by a slogan that says We Report, You Decide and it seems they should tag on if what we are telling you is actually real or not.
Time and time again Fox News has been caught in lies, but using a CIA Analyst who was never actually an analyst may take the cake.Wayne Simmons, who has appeared unpaid on Fox News since 2002, is a fraud and now he s now facing up to 40 years in prison for pretending to be a CIA Analyst, a lie that got him actual work with the United States government.
The Washington Post stated: According to federal prosecutors, his claims of a 27-year career with the CIA were lies, and it was only by repeating such falsehoods that Simmons was able to briefly get actual security clearances and real government contracting work in more recent years.
Well, the lies caught up with him, and last October Simmons was arrested and charged with making false statements, major fraud against the United States and wired fraud.
If you want to check out some of Simmons time as a Terror Analyst for Fox News, you can find it here:According to Dana Boente, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia: His fraud cost the government money, could have put American lives at risk, and was an insult to the real men and women of the intelligence community who provide tireless service to this country.
Now, Simmons has pleaded guilty to his charges.
According to the Washington Post: Wayne Simmons, 62, pleaded guilty to major fraud against the United States, wire fraud and being a felon in possession of a firearm.
He acknowledged that he made more than $78,000 from actual government contracting work he got in part because of his claim that he had worked for the CIA.Importantly, though, Simmons s written agreement with prosecutors does not include language in which he says outright that he lied about his clandestine past.
He conceded only that the government would prove at trial that he never worked for the CIA.
With Simmons saying: I believed then and I believe now that my skill sets could be used in Afghanistan to fight the global war on terror.
Sure you did, buddy.
You re a regular Captain America.Simmons sentencing is currently set for July 15.I know it s asking a lot for Fox News to maybe do a background check on their supposed analysts, but for all our sakes, it would be nice.
We should all decide Fox News is full of sh*t.Featured image via video screen capture