It s been said that good fences make good neighbors.
But in Aspen, Colo., this week, Vice President Mike Pence has something different posted between his vacation lodging and that of the people next door.Specifically, it s a rainbow banner reading Make America Gay Again.
It appeared on a stone pillar in front of the house where Pence and his wife are staying this week.VP @mike_pence is staying in a house near #Aspen on vacation.
His neighbors have a colorful message for him.
https://t.co/Ldef4h1G8U via @JasonAuslander pic.twitter.com/PzWqmN9Iml Aspen Times (@TheAspenTimes) December 30, 2017The daughters of the couple across the street and one of their girlfriends reportedly draped the rainbow banner on the pillar while a Pitkin County deputy and Secret Service members stood nearby, the Aspen Times reported.
The stone pillar is situated at the end of the driveway between the two homes.According to the Times, the Secret Service agents were unfazed when the women draped the banner over the pillar, telling them, We re not here to control your free speech rights.
FOX News Conservative Gay Guy expressed his disgust for the people who placed the Make America Gay Again banner across from the Pence family vacation retreat.
He tweeted: I may be gay, but I m tired of this crap.
My life doesn t revolve around my sexuality.
I m a person first.
The so-called tolerant left just continues to cause more division in this country.
Mike Pence's neighbors in Aspen hung a "Make America Gay Again" banner.I may be gay, but I'm tired of this crap.
My life doesn't revolve around my sexuality.
I'm a person first.
The so-called tolerant left just continues to cause more division in this country.
Conservative Gay Guy (@ConservGayGuy) December 30, 2017Conservative Gay Guy is not afraid to call out liberal gays for being intolerant, he s also not afraid to call out his liberal friends for their hypocrisy:None of my conservative family members or friends turned their back on me when I came out as gay.However, 2 of my friends became social justice warriors & stopped being friends with me over my political views.The side that claims to be tolerant/compassionate isn't really so.
Conservative Gay Guy (@ConservGayGuy) December 7, 2017When Muslim feminst (LOL!)
activist Linda Sarsour tweeted in support of Sharia Law, Conservative Gay Guy destroyed her with his response:You'll know when you're living under Sharia Law if suddenly all your loans & credit cards become interest free.
Sound nice, doesn't it?
Linda Sarsour (@lsarsour) May 13, 2015I'll know when I'm thrown off a building for being gay.
https://t.co/bxREbbopLb Conservative Gay Guy (@ConservGayGuy) December 28, 2017Conservative Gay Guy hit the nail on the head with this illegal immigration analogy:If half a family bought tickets to Disneyland & half snuck in, would they be breaking up families by kicking out the ones who snuck in?
Isn't the half who paid allowed to leave with them?
Please take the free education & go back to your country now that you know how to fix it.
Conservative Gay Guy (@ConservGayGuy) December 28, 2017