Around the time same sex marriage was making headlines, a handful of cake bakers across the country threw temper tantrums and refused to bake wedding cakes for anyone who didn t pass their rigid moral test (i.e., wasn t marrying someone of the opposite sex).
While these cake bakers claimed it was their First Amendment right to refuse service, the Supreme Court said it wasn t.What a difference a couple of years makes.
Today, we have a new president and bigotry is now cool.
One cake baker, though, was asked to bake Donald Trump s inaugural cake.
They did it, but they donated the profits to a charity Trump would hate, the Human Rights Campaign.The whole situation is weird to begin with.
Trump wanted an exact duplicate of the cake that celebrity chef Duff Goldman baked for the 2013 inauguration.The cake on the left is the one I made for President Obama s inauguration 4 years ago.
The one on the right is Trumps.
I didn t make it.
?
pic.twitter.com/qJXpCfPhii Duff Goldman (@Duff_Goldman) January 21, 2017Trump s people went to the Buttercream Bakeshop in Washington, D.C. to have the cake recreated.
They were happy to duplicate Goldman s work, with full attribution and a catch that Trump is likely not happy about.Excited to share the cake we got to make for one of last night s inaugural balls.
While we most love creating original designs, when we are asked to replicate someone else s work we are thrilled when it is a masterpiece like this one.
@duff_goldman originally created this for Obama s inauguration 4 years ago and this years committee commissioned us to re-create it.
Best part is all the profits are being donated to @humanrightscampaign, one of our favorite charities who we have loved working with over the years.
Because basic human rights are something every man, woman and child~ straight, gay or the rainbow in between~ deserve!Excited to share the cake we got to make for one of last night s inaugural balls.
While we most love creating original designs, when we are asked to replicate someone else s work we are thrilled when it is a masterpiece like this one.
@duff_goldman originally created this for Obama s inauguration 4 years ago and this years committee commissioned us to re-create it.
Best part is all the profits are being donated to @humanrightscampaign, one of our favorite charities who we have loved working with over the years.
Because basic human rights are something every man, woman and child~ straight, gay or the rainbow in between~ deserve!A photo posted by Buttercream Bakeshop (@bttrcrmbakeshop) on Jan 21, 2017 at 7:35am PSTCongratulations, Buttercream Bakeshop, you just showed the anti-gay bigots how cake protest is done.
Bravo!Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images.