Republicans in the state of North Carolina really need to get a better hobby, because legislating hate and constantly disparaging the LGBT community is getting really tired.
It s almost as if they have nothing better to do, and they believe hating on people is just so much darn fun.One of the ring leaders of all this hatred is Republican State Senator Buck Newton.
He s very proud of the new discriminatory law HB2, which prohibits Transgender individuals from using the proper bathroom.
He also doesn t care who thinks he s wrong about the law, because, you know, God.
Because his Almighty would apparently want him to discriminate against others based upon misinformed opinions and personal distastes.Now, at a rally in Raleigh, NC, Newton is continuing the charge against the LGBT community.
This time even being so bold as to say: Go home, tell your friends and family who had to work today what this is all about and how hard we must fight to keep our state straight.
Yep, no beating around the bush, he just came out and said it.
He doesn t want any LGBT people in the state of North Carolina.What s even scarier?
Newton is the Republican nominee for attorney general.Newton also said: We all know that the folks that wave the rainbow flags and things like that are politically very upset about the way things are today.
They re upset about the way things have always been in this state And they re bound and determined to try to change it, whether it s by winning elections in the city of Charlotte on their city council or whether it s wining elections in November in the General Assembly or whether it s winning elections in November for our governor.
Good.
Hopefully they do.Then, to reiterate his hatred and complete ineptitude of the Trans community, Newton said: Now it s been said that there are many, many, many, many more sexual predators on the sex offender list than there are transgender people.
And we can all feel sympathy for folks who are having difficult times, because we all know folks that have a difficult time, whether folks are struggling with drugs, are struggling with their marriages, figuring out what it is that they re supposed to be doing in life.
We can all have sympathy for that.
But that does not mean that we should expose our wives and our sisters and our children to the sexual predators in the bathrooms.
What an asshole.
No, seriously.
Transgender individuals are not sexual predators.
However, you know what group of individuals has been caught time and time again with their pants down?
Republican men.This hate-speech is merely going to fuel the fire of an already fiery war to combat HB2 and its legislated hatred of LGBT individuals.
Businesses have already pulled out, performers refusing to perform, and the entire nation has its eyes on North Carolina and what they plan to do next.This man does not belong in public office, because he is not a public servant, but rather a self-serving prick who writes laws to spread his own fear and hatred.
Disgusting.Featured image via video screen capture