Senator Lindsey Graham was asked to speak at a Washington Press Club Foundation s dinner and things quickly spiraled out of control.The night is typically filled with good-natured ribbing, some polite laughter and friendly banter, but apparently nobody explained that to Graham.
Instead, the one-time presidential hopeful went dark with his material.
Like What if Ted Cruz was murdered ha ha!
dark.
It was surreal.Sen Graham at the #WPCFDinner: "If you kill Ted Cruz on the floor of the Senate, and the trial is at the Senate, no one will convict you."
Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) February 26, 2016This is not to be confused with Donald Trump who has joked several times that he could kill someone in broad daylight and his supporters wouldn t care.
Let s hope Graham and Trump never put their heads together.Besides speculating that Ted Cruz is so loathed in Washington that nobody would care if he were killed on the floor the Senate, Graham also donned a Make America Great Again trucker hat and took potshots at the current Republican candidates.
He made Rubio is thirsty jokes and Ben Carson tried to stab his cousin jokes.
He got serious and slammed Donald Trump, a man he clearly hates miles above the rest.Happening now at the #WPCFDinner, Sen Graham in a "Make America Great Again" hat: pic.twitter.com/RZgRwu9NUp Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) February 26, 2016Which brought him to his conclusion, one that many of us had reached long, long ago: The Republican Party is collapsing and the clowns driving it off of a cliff are nuts.Sen Graham (R-SC) at the #WPCFDinner: "My party has gone batshit crazy " Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) February 26, 2016Why is Graham torching his own party now?
It could be because Graham was a big-time Jeb Bush backer.
The one-time promising candidate suspended his campaign following yet another crushing primary defeat.
With his friend Jeb out, the options left to choose from give new meaning to the phrase Pick your poison.
To a man they are unqualified, hate-fueled, and dishonest even by Washington standards.
Graham may simply be experiencing a very public bout of the kind of depression one gets when he or she realizes one half of the country has no clue what it s doing but might win anyway.But lest you think Graham has gone liberal, don t worry.
He closed with a gross birther joke.Sen Graham: "But I will say that our Canadian is better than your Kenyan."
Frank Thorp V (@frankthorpNBC) February 26, 2016Lindsey Graham, please get help.Featured image via Jennifer Bendery/Twitter