Whiskey, Tango, Hotel Don t worry, Brooke clarified her ludicrous statement by saying: These veterans are coming back from war and they just don t know their communities.
Yeah okay thanks for clarifying Brooke Radical leftist and open racist, Democrat Rep. Elijah Cummings appears to have the answer however, he s got the DOJ involved in an investigation from top to bottom of the Baltimore Police Department.
Once their shake-down is complete, the racist crackers will be outed, they ll be fired and everyone can go back to business.
As usual, where s there s a Democrat, there s a taxpayer funded government solution As if it s not hard enough to have to watch racist Democrat, US Rep. Elijah Cummings offer his expert opinion on the Baltimore riots/race war he s just giddy about we now have to listen to leftist CNN reporter Brooke Baldwin tell us these riots are the fault of our returning US Veterans How much more idiocy can America take?
Here s a great example of a courageous US Veteran who stood tall last night in the face of a large group of thugs who were threatening the Baltimore Police with rocks and other projectiles.
Is this who you were referring to Brooke?Here s the original interview with US Rep. Elijah Cummins:After more than a year of CNN pouring gasoline all over America with hysterical, and oftentimes phony, stories of American racism, the left-wing network s afternoon anchor Brooke Baldwin finally took it to the next level by blaming American veterans for the Baltimore riots.In a pathetic suck-up interview with Democrat Congressman Elijah Cummins, Baldwin never once had the moral courage to ask the failed Baltimore City congressman if the left-wing policies ushered in by a half-century of a Democrat monopoly in Baltimore might have something to do with the city s ills.
Instead, she said of young military veterans who become police officers, I love our nation s veterans, but some of them are coming back from war, they don t know the communities, and they are ready to do battle.
The context was a discussion about increased training and retraining for the Baltimore police.There s no question Baldwin is hoping to launch a narrative with that smear.This is pure CNN; throwing out anti-science smears towards the best people this country has to offer while it is in reality the rioters who are doing battle.
It is savages who are looting and burning and causing anarchy, not the police.
But it is the Baltimore police who have 15 wounded among their ranks.
It is the Baltimore police who calmly did not do much battle during Monday night s riots.Baldwin and CNN just can t help themselves.
This is a cable news network that relentlessly launches Hate Campaigns to smear decent people, like Christians, as a way to deflect from the evils done by the Gaystapo and the thugs who are tearing down predominantly black, working class cities like Ferguson and Baltimore.Essentially, what Baldwin said to the world was, Don t hire veterans!
They re too damaged to be trusted with authority.
We re back to the Vietnam-era where leftists smear our heroes to cover up the real problems.
CNN wants us to believe unstable veterans are the problem in Baltimore, not unstable families.But she loves veterans.Here s a great follow up interview with Mr. Valentine, the fearless veteran the residents in the city of Baltimore are fortunate enough to have living amongst them:Wine and live television tend to reveal just how ugly some people really are.Via: Breitbart News