Republicans are still pushing the lie that the Affordable Care Act includes death panels.
Back in 2009, Sarah Palin repeatedly claimed that President Obama s signature healthcare law forces elderly people to go before panels to decide whether they get medical care or not.
Other Republicans soon started making the same claim even though there is no such thing as death panels in the law.Politifact even rated the lie as their Lie of the Year in 2009.But even though Palin s death panel claim was declared a lie by fact-checkers in 2009, Republicans are still repeating it in 2017 to justify repealing the healthcare law that provides health insurance to 30 million Americans.During a town hall meeting held by GOP Rep. Gus Bilirakis in Florida on Saturday, Republican county secretary Bill Akins took the stage and repeated the death panel lie to the constituents who packed the room.
Here s the problem I have with the Affordable Care Act, Akins said.
Number one, there is a provision in there that anyone over the age of 74 has to go before what is effectively a death panel.
Bilirakis constituents immediately roared in disapproval.
Yes, they do, Akin continued.
It s in there, folks.
You re wrong.
The audience knew that Akins was lying and began booing him and calling him out.
Akin insisted that the provision is real, but the crowd would have none of it.Akin then proceeded to insult the crowd by calling them children.
Okay, children, he said, taunting them further.
Alright, children.
Here s the video via YouTube.So, a Republican literally just insulted the constituents of a fellow Republican.
Yeah, that s totally not going to bite Bilirakis on the ass when the next election comes around.Akin s response to the crowd demonstrates exactly what Republicans think of the American people, especially citizens who criticize them or dare to call them out on their lies.The fact is that there are no death panels in the Affordable Care Act.
However, Donald Trump is trying to turn Medicaid into an actual death panel program and this is something Republicans in Congress apparently support.Trump s plan would turn Medicaid into a block grant program where each state gets a certain amount of money for healthcare.
When the money runs out, states would have to decide who gets medical care and who doesn t. That s what a death panel really is.The Affordable Care Act, on the other hand, provides health insurance to millions of Americans to cover their healthcare needs.If anyone acted like a child during this town hall, it was Bill Akin for telling a baldfaced lie and then resorting to name-calling when he got called out for it.
Americans are being treated like little kids by Republicans and Republicans should pay the price for it in 2018.Featured image via screenshot