What a role model for women and young girls, a presidential candidate who has one foot in prison and the other on the campaign trail That Hillary If she s not lying she s never mind, she s probably lying Clinton is merely the first woman to earn a major party nod but she follows these party standard-bearers who also tried to break the ultimate glass ceiling:1872: Equal Rights Party, Victoria WoodhullNearly 50 years before women earned the right to vote, Victoria Woodhull headlined a progressive all-star ticket, running with former slave and abolitionist leader Fredrick Douglass.
Woodhull s agenda was well ahead of the Reconstructionist times; the newspaper editor turned Presidential nominee championed suffrage, civil rights and free love which is a radical threesome.1888: Equal Rights Party, Belva LockwoodLockwood was born in a log cabin and the first woman to argue a case before the Supreme Court, but her bootstraps story didn t impress some wags of the day.
Old lady Lockwood, the Atlanta Constitution warned, would subject the country to petticoat rule.
She got 4,100 votes in an age when half the electorate women still could not vote and most blacks were still disenfranchised.1940: Surprise Party, Gracie AllenLike Donald Trump s candidacy, what began as a joke between comedian Gracie Allen and her husband and show time side-kick George Burns, soon became a national amusement.
Allen, who s political slogan was Down with common sense, vote for Gracie and vowed to resolve the California-Florida boundary dispute, seized the nation s attention with a series of campaign stops and satirical policy platform.
It s estimated that she received 42,000 votes in November.1968: Communist Party USA, Charlene MitchellMitchell, a card-carrying member of the CPUSA from age 16, was the first African-American woman to be nominated for president.
The ticket, which made it onto only two state ballots, received just over 1,000 votes.1972: Socialist Worker s Party, Linda JennessAt age 31, Jenness could not have actually served if she had been elected but that was part of the point.
We think that constitutional requirement is ridiculous, Jenness said.
Turning 35 does not make you a genius, politically, as so many of our politicians have proven.
Jenness was an outspoken anti-war candidate and vocal critic of rival nominees, the Republican Richard Nixon and Democratic George McGovern.1976: People s Party, Margaret WrightThe World War II shipyard worker featured in the 1980 documentary The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter fronted the People s Party ticket, a coalition of various socialist and anti-war organizations.
The party received 49,016 votes, or .06% of the national total.1980: Right to Life Party, Ellen McCormackMcCormack s single-issue candidacy brought the pro-life agenda to the nation s attention.
After a successful run as a Democrat that earned her 238,000 primary votes and raised over $500,000 in campaign contributions, McCormack s 1980 campaign received 32,000 votes in the three states in which she qualified.
I think we are teaching working mothers it is more prestigious to work than be home with their children, the self-described housewife once said.1984: Citizens Party, Sonia JohnsonFor entire list go here: NYDaily News