Donald Trump s Twitter account is littered with insults and inappropriate comments, remarks disparaging others and typos.
For example, he once tweeted that, Obama is, without question, the WORST EVER president.
I predict he will now do something really bad and totally stupid to show manhood!
as if a child was running his social media account.
On Arianna Huffington he tweeted, @ariannahuff is unattractive both inside and out.
I fully understand why her former husband left her for a man- he made a good decision.
At 3:00 a.m. in late September, Donald unleashed a seemingly drunken barrage of tweets to tell his 13 million followers to check out former Miss Universe Alicia Macado s sex tape which totally does not exist.And those are his nice tweets.
With people going to the polls on Tuesday, Trump s aides have revoked access to his Twitter account, according to a new report.Aides to Mr. Trump have finally wrested away the Twitter account that he used to colorfully and often counterproductively savage his rivals.
But offline, Mr. Trump still privately muses about all of the ways he will punish his enemies after Election Day, including a threat to fund a super PAC with vengeance as its core mission.We re not sure why they didn t do this sooner.Several advisers warned him that he risked becoming like a wild animal chasing its prey so zealously that it raced over a cliff a reminder that he could pursue his grievances and his eagerness to fling insults, but that the cost would be a plunge into an electoral abyss.Taking away Twitter turned out to be an essential move by his press team, which deprived him of a previously unfiltered channel for his aggressions.On Thursday, the GOP presidential nominee spotted Air Force One outside his airplane window while it was on the tarmac in Miami.As he glowered at the larger plane, he told Ms. Hicks, his spokeswoman, to jot down a proposed tweet about President Obama, who was campaigning nearby for Mrs. Clinton.
Why is he campaigning instead of creating jobs and fixing Obamacare?
Trump said of his proposed tweet.
Get back to work.
Hope Hicks felt the need to edit it, adding for the American people at the end.Steve Bannon who was recruited into Trump s campaign from Breitbart.com suggested that it was a trap.
They want to get inside your head, Bannon told him.
It s a trap.
Or, just maybe, Air Force One was there for other reasons and not following Trump around.
Even on 9/11, Trump threw insults out on the day most of us remember the victims of the worst terrorist attack on American soil.On the eleventh hour, just says before American voters will decide who should become the next leader of the free world, Trump s aides finally took Donald s Twitter account away from him.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty.