Republican frontrunner Donald Trump does not lose gracefully.
In the past, he s threatened riots and violence if he were to lose the GOP nomination, but now that Ted Cruz is starting to close in on him, the business mogul is upping the ante.After a humiliating loss in Colorado, where Cruz took every last one of the state s 34 delegates, Trump is whining about the crooked and corrupt way America chooses party nominees.
Ever the sore loser, Trump cried foul because Cruz was able to get all of the delegates support, even though residents couldn t vote.
Calling this perceived injustice the biggest story in politics , Trump complained that the people of Colorado had their vote taken away from them by the phony politicians.
And of course, he made all of these accusations over his favorite news platform Twitter: This unusual nomination process in Colorado state was explained by The Denver Post last year: Colorado will not vote for a Republican candidate for president at its 2016 caucus after party leaders approved a little-noticed shift that may diminish the state s clout in the most open nomination contest in the modern era.The GOP executive committee has voted to cancel the traditional presidential preference poll after the national party changed its rules to require a state s delegates to support the candidate who wins the caucus vote.The move makes Colorado the only state so far to forfeit a role in the early nomination process, according to political experts, but other caucus states are still considering how to adapt to the new rule.
But Trump really can t get over it.
Trump complained even more while speaking to thousands at a rally in New York yesterday, insisting that the GOP nominee should be whoever wins the most votes, not delegates.
Trump said: What they re trying to do is subvert the movement with crooked shenanigans.
We should have won it a long time ago.
But, you know, we keep losing where we re winning.
This morning, Trump continued to b*tch and moan on Fox & Friends.
He said: I ve gotten millions of more votes than [Sen. Ted] Cruz, and I ve gotten hundreds of delegates more, and we keep fighting, fighting, fighting, and then you have a Colorado where they just get all of these delegates, and it s not [even] a system.
There was no voting.
I didn t go out there to make a speech or anything.
There s no voting.
He also called some of the ways candidates try to win delegates crooked : They offer them trips they offer them all sorts of things, and you re allowed to do that.
I mean, you re allowed to offer trips, and you can buy all these votes.
What kind of a system is this?
Now, I m an outsider, and I came into the system and I m winning the votes by millions of votes.
But the system is rigged.
It s crooked.
Clearly, Trump has forgotten all about that time he bribed former candidate Ben Carson with a job so the retired neurosurgeon would endorse him.
Talk about crooked.
Whether Trump likes it or not, he s going to have to play by the rules and if he doesn t the nomination is going to keep slipping away from him.
He s going to have to appeal to delegates instead of people like his easily influenced racist, misogynistic supporters.
Trump delegate chief Paul Manafort reports that Trump is going to implement a strategy similar to what Cruz has been doing.
Manafort said: A more traditional approach is needed and Donald Trump recognizes that.
In order for Trump to get enough delegates to get the Republican nomination by June 7, he will still need to win 60% of the remaining delegates.
Right now, Trump is winning 45%.
According to the Associated Press, Trump has 743 delegates compared to Cruz s 545.Featured image via Gage Skidmore