The majority of Republicans have fought tooth and nail to make sure that the LGBT community could not have the same rights and protections as others.
President Barack Obama s presidency has been a major threat to those intolerant values, as marriage equality was finally legalized in all 50 states during his second term.
Obama is still this nation s voice of equality, and today marks yet another tremendous win for the LGBT community.On Friday, Obama announced that the Stonewall Inn will become the first LGBT-dedicated National Monument.
The Stonewall Inn is a historic landmark, and was the site of the 1969 riots that kicked off the gay rights movement.
In releasing the news that the Stonewall Inn will be named a National Historic Monument, the White House released a powerful video, which announces that the Stonewall Inn will be the first official National Park Service unit dedicated to telling the story of LGBT Americans, just days before the one year anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision guaranteeing marriage equality in all 50 states.
In the video, Obama delivers a message that is going to have Republicans fuming once again: I believe our national parks should reflect the full story of our country, the richness and diversity and uniquely American spirit that has always defined us: that we are stronger together, that out of many, we are one.
The Stonewall National Monument covers almost 8 acres in New York s Greenwich Village, including the Stonewall Inn the site where LGBT patrons fought police persecution.
Obama spoke on the police raids in the video, and noted how the gay bar deserved a place in American history: Raids like these were nothing new, but this time the patrons had had enough.
So they stood up and spoke out.
The riots became protests.
The protests became a movement.
The movement ultimately became an integral part of America.
Also in the video are the words of LGBT activist Eunic Ortiz, who said: The Stonewall riots in 1969, I think, obviously was a very pivotal point in our history.
It was when we all stood up, and a trans woman of color said, Enough is enough, and it started a movement.
And it started a movement that said, We re not less than you.
We are your equals.
You can watch the powerful video below:In a press release, the White House said: Although the LGBT civil rights movement has made significant progress in the pursuit of equal rights and protections under the law, there is still more work to do.
As seen two weeks ago in Orlando, FL, LGBT Americans continue to face acts of violence, discrimination, and hate.
LGBT people of color are especially at risk.
The Administration is committed to continuing the fight for dignity, acceptance and equal rights for all Americans no matter who they are or who they love.
Even decades after the riots, the bar has continued to be an attraction for gay rights activists last year, after the Supreme Court legalized gay marriage, LGBT activists gathered there in celebration.
Recently, following the tragic mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida earlier this month, mourners gathered at the site.Judging from conservatives reactions to the news, the GOP isn t taking this very well:YahooYahooYahooYahooMediaiteMediaiteBy now we know that if conservatives are getting this angry over something, that must mean that some real progress in America is being made.
Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y), who helped lead the effort, said: Stonewall is finally taking its rightful place in American history.
We are faced with painful reminders daily of how much further we must go to achieve true equality and tolerance for the LGBT community, but honoring and preserving the stories of all of the diverse participants in Stonewall in our National Park System is a clear symbol of how far we have come.
Featured image via Pool / Getty Images