The NRA claims to care about our military veterans but they just got busted desecrating a military cemetery by filming an anti-Hillary campaign ad without permission.The 30 second ad shows Benghazi attack survivor Mark Geist casually walking through the grave markers of our deceased military veterans in the midst of dramatic fear-inducing music as he openly blames Hillary Clinton for the deaths of four Americans at the U.S. consulate in Libya in September 2012.
A lot of people say they aren t going to vote this November because their candidate didn t win, Geist began before pointing out that millions of veterans won t be voting this year because they are dead.
Well, I know some other people who won t be voting this year either.
Hillary as president no thanks, he continues.
I served in Benghazi.
My friends didn t make it.
They did their part.
Do yours.
The $2 million ad campaign then goes on to urge people to vote for Donald Trump.Here s the video via YouTube.As you can see, Geist is clearly being filmed inside of a national cemetery where filming is prohibited by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
In order to film a commercial at such a sacred venue requires permission, which the NRA didn t bother to seek because they knew they wouldn t get it.
That s because their campaign ad is obviously partisan and is using the graves of dead soldiers to attack a political opponent.VA spokesman James Hutton condemned the ad and confirmed that the NRA did not seek nor did they receive permission.
The National Cemetery Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs has not received or approved any filming requests of this nature.
NCA did not receive a request from the NRA to film the subject advertisement.
If we had received such a request, we would have denied it based on the partisan content.
Our veterans, their families and survivors are our top priority.
To maintain the sanctity and decorum of VA National Cemeteries as national shrines, our filming policy states that filming may not be used for the expression of partisan or political viewpoints, or for uses that are (or may be interpreted as) an endorsement of a commercial entity.
In short, the NRA disgraced this country and themselves by using the graves of our fallen heroes in their political witch hunt against Hillary Clinton.
And this comes in the wake of House Republicans ending their four year long Benghazi investigation which failed to find any evidence that Clinton is to blame for the attack.Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the family of Ambassador Chris Stevens, who also died in Benghazi that day, do not hold Hillary Clinton responsible for the attack.
In fact, they say the underlying cause for the lack of security is the way Republicans have slashed security funding for U.S. embassies and diplomatic personnel in the years prior to the attack.
Perhaps if Congress had provided a budget to increase security for all missions around the world, then some of the requests for more security in Libya would have been granted, said Dr. Anne Stevens, the sister of Ambassador Stevens.
Certainly the State Department is underbudgeted.
I do not blame Hillary Clinton or [former CIA Director] Leon Panetta.
They were balancing security efforts at embassies and missions around the world.
And their staffs were doing their best to provide what they could with the resources they had.
This is a sick campaign ad by the NRA and they should be ashamed of themselves for sinking to this depth in what is obviously a desperation play because they know their Republican nominee is getting his ass handed to him in the polls.
If anything, this violation of the sanctity of the final resting place of many veterans, many of whom were probably not Republicans or members of the NRA, should enrage every American who claims to give a damn about the men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country.
The NRA disrespected sacred ground and that cannot go unpunished.Featured image via screen capture