After offering Americans a sh*t sandwich for health care coverage, a plan which was slammed by conservative groups, doctors, hospitals, democrats, and liberals, Trumpcare, the Republicans attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare, failed.
Alleged president Donald Trump couldn t even get his own party to back his major campaign promise to eradicate Obamacare and replace it with a viable alternative.
Republicans have been promising that for seven long years and the best they could come up with is tax cuts for the wealthy while the middle class and lower income Americans suffer.
Naturally, Trump blamed Democrats.So what does an amateur president do after such a stunning defeat?
The 70-year-old headed to Trump International Gold Club in Virginia on Saturday, reportedly for meetings, although, who he is meeting with is only open to speculation since it s not clear from pool reports.What is clear is that this marks the former reality show star s 12th visit to a golf course since his inauguration just two months ago.
This also marks Trump s eighth weekend in a row making a trip to a Trump-owned property, the latter of which brings up his massive list of conflicts of interests.
The former highlights his hypocrisy since he blasted Barack Obama for playing golf while he was in office.This also marks Mr. Trump's 8th consecutive weekend visit to a Trump-owned property (Mar-a-Lago club, FL golf club, VA golf club, DC hotel) https://t.co/uoLa4UvKKO Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 25, 2017Trump obviously needs a safe place to go to.
The Trump-owned business, though, will profit from his presidency.
This has been a reoccurring problem with the alleged billionaire, who, by the way, still refuses to release his tax returns.Each vacation Trump takes is costing the taxpayers dearly.
Don t worry, though!
As Trump put it in a tweet reportedly while he was en route to the golf club, ObamaCare will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE.
Do not worry!
ObamaCare will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE.
Do not worry!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2017Trump is literally hoping Obamacare, which provides coverage for millions of Americans, will explode.
How is any of this Making America Great Again?
Asking for a friend Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images