The Syrian air base Trump spent $80 million bombing yesterday is reportedly back in business.
It s been less than 24 hours.According to Syrian human rights observers, warplanes were seen using the airbase as part of their attacks on anti-government forces near Homs.Reuters:Syrian warplanes took off from an air base which was hit by U.S. cruise missiles on Friday, and carried out air strikes on rebel-held areas in the eastern Homs countryside, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.Trump received praise from right-wing politicians and media pundits giddy at the idea of another war for his decisive blow to the Syrian regime.
Instead, it appears the attack did very little to undermine Assad s military.It did, however, escalate tensions in the region and inflame military posturing from Iran and Russia.
According to Russian officials, the country will begin shipping anti-aircraft weapons into Syria in direct response to Trump s attack.
A Russian war ship has also positioned itself near the two U.S. vessels responsible for firing the tomahawk missiles into Syria.Trump s attack on the Syrian air base had a staggering price tag.
The guy who claimed America couldn t afford to pay for Meals on Wheels spent an estimated $60-80 million on the rockets alone.
The entire cost for the military action is likely much higher.The attack itself was largely an empty gesture provocative but meaningless.
Trump warned Russia ahead of time (in order to allow Russian soldiers to leave the battlefield).
The Russians tipped off the Syrians, who also evacuated before the first missile touched down.
One estimate put the death toll at eight.
It s not entirely clear if the real number is even that high.As for Trump, his motivation seemed clear: Publicity.
A few years ago, Trump even hinted that this might be his response to sagging approval numbers when he projected his own insecurities onto then president Obama.Now that Obama s poll numbers are in tailspin watch for him to launch a strike in Libya or Iran.
He is desperate.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 9, 2012Trump, desperate and angry, suddenly thinks attacking Syria is an important military action.
Surprise, surprise.Featured image via Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images