What pushed Democrat Congressman John Conyers to resign instead of just announce he would retire at the end of his term?The Detroit Free Press reports another accuser came forward just last night:The most recent, Elisa Grubbs, made accusations against Conyers on Monday night, saying in a statement that Conyers put his hand up her skirt at a church, among other allegations.As late as Tuesday morning, there were reports that Conyers would fight on, choosing to remain in office til the end of his current term and then retire in early 2019.
But speaking on Mildred Gaddis show on WPZR-FM (102.7), Conyers said he was resigning.FORCED TO RESIGN:Facing a rising chorus of voices demanding he step down because of sexual harassment claims, U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Detroit, resigned the seat he has held for more than five decades, a swift and crushing fall from grace for a civil rights icon and the longest-serving active member of Congress.ENDORSES HIS SON TO REPLACE HIM:Saying he was finalizing his plans for retirement, Conyers added he would endorse his son, John Conyers III, to replace him Congress.
My legacy can t be compromised or dimished in any way by what we re going through now.
This too shall pass.
My legacy will continue through my children, Conyers told Mildred Gaddis on her Detroit radio show.As for the accusations against him, Conyers said, They re not accurate, they re not true and they re something I can t explain where they came from.
Conyers, 88, resigned two weeks after an article on BuzzFeed.com detailed a secret settlement of more than $27,000 with former staffer, MARION BROWN who accused him of making sexual advances toward her and paying her out of funds from his taxpayer-supported office.MARION BROWN CAME FORWARD WITH SHOCKING DETAILS:The descriptions below of what went on at the office of Rep. John Conyers will make your blood boil.
He felt entitled to treat the women in his office like he owned them in every way.
It s pretty disgusting.We re still waiting to hear what s going to happen with Conyers.
Democrat leaders have called for him to resign but his lawyer has been pushing back trying to make the accuser look bad.
He treads a fine line with his threats to the accuser and to others in D.C. We re hoping he spills the beans on the others who have used our tax dollars to pay off sexual harassment victims.Marion Brown, a former staff member whose accusations have sparked the scandal surrounding embattled U.S. Rep. John Conyers, described in an interview Thursday how the Detroit congressman allegedly created a hostile work environment for his female staffers and, at times, pressed her for sexual favors, particularly when his wife was away.
He owns you when you are there, Brown said in the interview with Stephen Henderson, host of Detroit Today on WDET-FM (101.9) and editorial page editor at the Free Press.
At one time, it was said amongst staff members females that he thinks that his initials, J.C., stand for Jesus Christ, she said.Brown said Conyers would invite me to a hotel in the guise of business, and then it turns into something else.
And this happened too often.
And that was throughout.
She said the sexual advances intensified whenever his wife, Monica Conyers, was out of town.
He seemed to have taken on the attitude that I m gonna go for it now.
My wife s away, and I have these needs and I m going to call you up in the middle of the night, Brown said.
I know it s because he decided that he wanted to stop the hunting game, Brown said.
He had no more interest in trying to persuade and seduce me into, you know, sex or being his side piece.
During that interview, she shared details of Conyers alleged sexual advances toward her, including how Conyers in 2005 allegedly invited her to his Chicago hotel room and, while in his underwear, pointed to his genitals and asked her to touch it.