Nothing pisses me off more than a Republican professing their undying love for Israel and the Jewish people.
I m old enough to remember the distant past of the early 2000 s when the phrase The Goddamn Jew Media and Those fucking Jews in Hollywood were bandied about by conservatives.
Why, I even recall a time when the front runner for the Republican primaries actively courted the KKK and neo-Nazi vote.
Oh wait, that s happening right f*cking now.As a Jew myself, I find it amazing that conservatives can keep a straight face when praising Israel.
Especially southern Republicans that were raised on a steady diet of Antisemitism.
Should Israel ever elect a liberal government, we d be right back to Republicans despising Jews.
Even Sheldon Adelson s billions wouldn t be enough to hide their disdain for us.But in the meantime, we re witness to the spectacle of not only Republicans pretending to love Jews, but Republicans having the balls to call some Jews self-loathing.
Earlier this week on The Joyce Kaufman Show, Rep. Louie Gohmert criticized President Obama and his Jewish supporters over a Wall Street Journal report about the administration s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, dismissing the president s Jewish allies as self-hating.The Texas Republican said of Obama: He s never been able to stand Israel.
He s never been able to get along with people who actually stood for Israel.
Now he gets along fine with the Israel-haters, he continued.
But, and it breaks my heart, but there are some children of Israel who just apparently seem to be self-loathing when it comes to Israel but yeah, those folks he gets along with fine.
I have repeatedly anointed myself The World s Jew.
I eat bacon.
I celebrate Christmas.
I mix meat and dairy.
I literally only know Passover is coming when the supermarket puts matzoh bread on sale.
Yet, the idea that I am a self-loathing Jew because I don t support the murderous right wing regime turning Israel in a full-fledged apartheid state is deeply offense.
It s even more offensive coming from a person pretending not to hate Jews in the first place.The conflation of Israel and Jew is a deliberate and calculated move to shield Israel from criticism by leveling accusations of Antisemitism.
But that doesn t exactly work on the millions of Jews like me around the world that are appalled at the violence and hatred perpetrated by Israel s government.
So people try to label us self-loathing Jews.But I say that the only Jews who truly despise themselves are the ones that are rushing to embrace the same genocidal rage that brought us the Holocaust.In the meantime, Louie Gohmert can choke on a matzoh ball.Featured image by Gage Skidmore.