Whenever Hillary cackles, you can be pretty sure she s either hiding something or she s deflecting from a topic she refuses to address.
The trail of destruction she left behind in Libya while acting as our incompetent Sec.
of State, including the deaths of four brave Americans in Benghazi, should be enough to disqualify her for a janitorial position at the Pentagon.
Yet today, we find our corrupt media pushing for Hillary to become our next President of the United States.
The undeniable connection between Hillary s incompetence in Libya and the current Muslim migrant crisis is explained below.
You probably know that the European Union has clamped down finally on the arrivals of migrants in Greece (from Turkey) with their latest scheme to return those who have no legitimate claim to asylum back to Turkey.So it is no surprise that smugglers are finding a new (old!)
route.
It is not really new because ever since the Obama Administration launched its foolish attack on Libya (with its equally foolish European partners), Libya has been a launch pad for invasion, albeit the flow from there slowed during the winter months as the invasion of Europe by mostly Muslim migrants was directed at the Turkey/Greece route.And, in this hot US Election 2016 season why is there no mention of the fact that Hillary (and her girls) are to blame for the hellhole Libya has become?At least strongman Libyan leader Col.Muammar Gaddafi was able to keep the invasion of Europe from launching from Libya!
Now it is a crime-ridden hellhole where smugglers ply their trade with impunity.Here is Hillary cackling about the death of Col. Mummer Gaddafi:https://youtu.be/yn6yktWU5qAHere is what UKIP s Nigel Farage said last year:Libya was actively working with Italy to prevent illegal aliens from trying to cross the Mediterranean on boats.
Then the US and Britain armed and provided air support to Sunni Jihadists to topple Gaddafi.
Now, people from all over Africa are packing into small boats and trying to illegally enter Europe.USA Today tells us how the Turkey to Greece smugglers are turning their attention again to Libya.
Refugees will not sit idle in Turkey they say:Abu Hassan, the administrator of a Facebook page dedicated to smuggling, said that s already happening.
People are now traveling from Turkey to Libya by air and then to Italy by sea in a more expensive and more dangerous journey, he said.Of course the government of Turkey is complicit too, surely they must know that refugees are hopping planes to Libya in increasing numbers!Every photo of invaders of Europe from Libya should be juxtaposed with this video of Hillary cackling after her plans killed Gadaffi!
(Watch Huma hand her a phone in front of the cameras).Via: Refugee Resettlement Watch