When NBC News Chief Foreign Affairs Correspondent Andrea Mitchell calls a presidential candidate uneducated on foreign policy, we should listen.Because that s precisely what she had to say about Republican front-runner Donald Trump on Sunday during an appearance on Meet The Press.Mitchell has been NBC s foreign affairs expert for over 20 years so she knows what she is talking about.
So whenever Trump has opened his mouth to talk about international affairs, she is taken aback.
He cannot stick to a subject.
It is remarkable, Mitchell told Chuck Todd.
And when he doesn t know something, he just changes the subject, and makes it all about himself.
Todd had just referenced an interview where Trump changed the topic rather than answer a question about whether he would use a nuclear weapon against ISIS.Chuck Todd mentioned that national security talk is especially noticeable to people like Mitchell who have literally spent their careers keeping up with foreign policy.
He would cancel defense treaties with Japan and South Korea against North Korea, Mitchell said in reference to a Trump interview with the New York Times.
He would be okay if Japan and South Korea go nuclear.
American policy for decades since World War II has been trying to keep nukes out of that arena.
Then Mitchell explained how Trump would hurt America by cutting off our oil supply from Saudi Arabia if the Saudis refuse to pay the United States more money for defense, which would likely hit our economy like a ton of bricks as oil prices rise and the price of gas skyrockets.
If we re going to make America less dependent on foreign oil, we have to do so gradually because all at once would be a disaster.But she was particularly concerned about the fact that Trump doesn t seem to understand that Iran isn t allowed to buy American planes, nor does he know that China is North Korea s biggest trading partner.
He is completely all over the lot Mitchell said.
On Iran, he complains that Iran isn t buying our planes.
It had to be pointed out to him that Iran is still under sanctions and cannot buy American planes.
He thinks North Korea and Iran are the biggest trading partners, when North Korea s biggest trading partner is China.
And then she finished slaying Trump with a single line that should worry every American.
He is completely uneducated about any part of the world.
Todd went on to consult Katy Tur about what she has learned about Trump s lack of foreign policy chops, and she mentioned that Trump doesn t understand the function of US military bases around the world and why they are there, which would be a very important thing to know to be an effective commander-in-chief of our armed forces.Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is an idiot when it comes to domestic policy and foreign policy, but considering the issues we face internationally whether it be terrorism, rising tensions in the Middle East, competing with China on the world economic stage, and dealing with a refugee crisis, the last thing America needs is a leader who doesn t know anything about any of these issues beyond campaign rhetoric that lasts a full sentence before the subject is changed.Presidents cannot just change the subject rather than deal with a foreign policy crisis.
They have to figure out a solution to the problem and being uneducated about the situation to begin with doesn t exactly build confidence that the problem will be solved competently.And since Trump has proven that he can t do that, it doesn t make any sense whatsoever to elect him to the highest office in the land with a greatest responsibility in the world.Featured image: screenshot