After the Paris Accord, the United States under Donald Trump is generally seen as the baby in a high chair that s been pulled up to the table at which the adults are sitting and leaders are more and more willing to openly express that sentiment because at this point any hope that Trump would prove naysayers wrong is out the window at this point.On Sunday, The Donald continued his attempts to harness the London Bridge attack to promote his agenda.
While at one point this would have led to condemnation of his words, London s Mayor showed the world that it s time to just stop taking him seriously at all.
At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is no reason to be alarmed!
Trump tweeted, attacking the mayor entirely out of context.At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is "no reason to be alarmed!"
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2017Trump didn t mention this, but he was referencing a BBC interview in which Khan explained that he has expanded police presence in the wake of the attack and that citizens should not be alarmed if they see more people in uniforms than normal.
Londoners will see an increased police presence today and over the course of the next few days, Khan told the interviewer.
There s no reason to be alarmed.
One of the things the police and all of us need to do is ensure that we re as safe as we possibly can be.
He added that London will never let the terrorists win.
While only Donald Trump would have an issue with the Mayor letting citizens know not to be alarmed by increased police presence, at this point people just don t give a f*ck what he has to say.In a statement related to the attack, the Mayor (through a spokesman) hit Trump hard by telling him he s just not that important:Spokesperson for London Mayor Sadiq Khan: "He has more important things to do than respond to Donald Trump's ill-informed tweet" pic.twitter.com/Vqpi3gOaTH NBC News (@NBCNews) June 4, 2017 The Mayor is busy working with the police, emergency services, and the government to coordinate the response to this horrific and cowardly terrorist attack and provide leadership and reassurance to Londoners and visitors to our city, the statement reads.
He has more important things to do than respond to Donald Trump s ill-informed tweet that deliberately takes out of context his remarks urging Londoners not to be alarmed when they saw more police including armed officers on the streets.
This is the second time in a 24 hour period that Trump was not taken seriously.
After he tweeted a Drudge Report article, NBC refused to relay Trump s ill-informed and reactionist bullsh*t:Pres.
Trump has used Twitter to share news report on London incident.We aren't relaying president's retweet, as the info is unconfirmed.
NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) June 3, 2017If you thought that in your lifetime there would never be a time when the President of the United States is considered such a joke that he is to be ignored, you were wrong.Featured image via screengrab