Liberals have been questioning the intelligence of Tea Partiers since the movement arrived on the national political scene complete with misspelled signs and idiotic conspiracy theories.
Their leaders include such great minds as Michele Bachman and Ted Cruz, two people with impressive educational backgrounds who can t seem to stop saying incredibly dimwitted things.That mentality trickles down to the state and municipal level as well, as members of the crowds of tea bag wearing patriots decided to go home to seek public office and crusade for a return to 1789.
Never has that been more obvious than in the case of Hampstead, NH Advisory Budget Committee Chairman, Jorge Mesa-Tejada.The school board in Hampstead was seeking approval for upgrades to the local elementary school, using the security of the students as one of their reasons.
Looking to eliminate the use of remote classrooms outside of the main building, the board cited that the traveling back and forth of students may provide an opportunity for a sniper to shoot children.While that may seem a little bit extreme, it is nothing compared to the chairman s argument against the upgrades.
In an open committee hearing broadcast on local cable access television, Mesa-Tejada outlined exactly how he would use his military training to wipe out children, killing them at recess from the woods behind them.
I would have a field day, he said.Reaction from the school board was swift.
Mesa-Tejada has had a no trespassing order issued against him, banning him from being anywhere near school property.
Not only did he outline what could only be the delusions of a very sick mind, he also gave other lunatics the perfect plan of attack to pull off the next Newtown.The chairman has since apologized, but it s too little too late for the school board and the residents of Hampstead.
When I saw the recording, I had two first reactions, said Caitlin Parnell, a mother of two children at the school.
One was disbelief that an elected official would be talking this way, and my second reaction was to feel sick to my stomach.
You can watch Mesa-Tejada s despicable comments below:Featured image via Twitter