Donald Tiny Hands Trump might be in for a bit of a shock soon.
The hacktivist group is calling on every able person with a computer to join in their efforts to slow the advance of the racist, xenophobic billionaire.
On March 4, the group posted a video declaring total war on the 2016 hopeful.
Using the hashtag #OpTrump on Twitter, the group is threatening to dismantle his campaign by taking his websites offline.The first in this new series of attacks is to occur on April 1, when Trump Chicago will be taken offline on April Fool s Day through a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack, but it doesn t stop there.
All of Trump s personal, business, and campaign websites seem to be a target.
But it doesn t stop there the group also vows to uncover embarrassing information about The Donald and make it public.
Dear Donald Trump, we have been watching you for a long time and what we see is deeply disturbing, a spokesperson says in the video.
Your inconsistent and hateful campaign has not only shocked the United States of America [but] you have shocked the entire planet with your appalling actions and ideas.
You say what your audience wants to hear but in reality you don t stand for anything except for your personal greed and power.
The message is then directed to anyone who opposes Trump s hate: We need you to shut down his websites, to research and expose what he doesn t want the public to know.
We need to dismantle his campaign and sabotage his brand.
We are encouraging every able person with a computer to participate in this operation.
This is not a warning, this is a declaration of total war.
Donald Trump it is too late to expect us.
The post also includes what appears to be a wealth of The Donald s personal information, though we will not verify that or publish it (After all, there are lines we will not cross).Trump first earned the group s attention in December when he called for a total ban on Muslims entering the United States, even if they are returning from vacation.
Earlier this month, the hacktivist collective accessed Trump s voicemail and posted the contents online, embarrassing the liberal media by revealing that the same journalists Trump demonizes are perfectly willing to cozy up to him for favors.It is unknown what information will be revealed through this operation, but if it is anything like the voicemails, it will be pretty damning.Featured image via screengrab