The way Donald Trump responded on Twitter to Saturday s terrorist attack in central London that left seven dead and injured at least 48 others has ruffled more than a few feathers, especially those of the British, including London Mayor Sadiq Khan and Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling, who had this epic response to Trump:It's called 'leadership', Donald.
The terrorists were dead 8 minutes after police got the call.
If we need an alarmist blowhard, we'll call.
https://t.co/NUiy9j4fBt J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) June 4, 2017But on Sunday afternoon, an MSNBC anchor raised an interesting question.
Is it possible that Trump might be a little jealous that nobody is trying to attack the USA at the moment?
Because, despite how horrible yet another atrocity like that on US soil would be, it would also most definitely be of a tremendous benefit to the Trump and his questionable agenda if somebody were.Trump had tweeted after the attack that the time for political correctness was over and MSNBC anchor Thomas Roberts used the same approach while interviewing Democratic Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed.
Let s not be PC about this, Roberts prefixed his question the first time round.
Is the president trying to provoke a domestic terrorist attack with this Twitter rant because only to prove himself right?
Reed didn t directly acknowledge the question, but rather responded, not being politically correct doesn t mean being misinformed or leaking intelligence that harms one of our most important allies, going on to add, The way to handle a matter of this kind is not through the form of tweet, it s form of leader to leader direct conversations often handled in a confidential manner.
Fortunately for Roberts, Reed wasn t his only guest that day so he figured he might be able to get a more direct response out of his second visitor, former Vermont governor and Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean, but again, Roberts efforts were in vain.
I asked this of Mayor Reed, but it seems like the president is trying to provoke something that he can politicize more for his own gain in America.
Do you feel that way?
Roberts asked.Dean also avoided the question but didn t hold back on giving his candid opinion of the American President or his ability to do his job.
Well, I think he s totally incompetent, said Dean, soon changing the topic to Trump pulling out of the Paris accord.
I m tired of this crap.
Let him do what he wants.
He s not the president of what the American dream stands for.
He s not the president of the greatest nation on the face of the Earth, later adding, He can be his own president and get whatever he wants out of that.
We ll speak for America.
He can speak for whoever he wants.
Thomas Roberts has come up with an interesting question, one which makes sense and worth considering, but definitely a dangerous one for a Democrat to give a direct and honest response to.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images