When we think of rape, often we think of someone pulling a woman into a back alley while wearing a ski mask, or some creeper in a van snatching a child from a playground.
It rarely happens that way, though.
Usually, sexual assaults and other kinds of abuse happen at the hands of those we know.
This is something that one Colorado mother learned the hard way, when her own husband sexually assaulted her 15-year-old daughter.Catherine St. Germain bravely posted the video of her daughter s story to Facebook in a beautifully haunting video.
The background music was from the Beatles song Yesterday.
The post went viral, as, using homemade cue cards, St. Germain revealed the identity of her now- ex-husband who turned out to be her daughter s attacker, Aaron Scott.
Scott is not only a former officer of the law, but he also served in the U.S. Navy.
Sometimes those charged with serving and protecting can be the people we need to fear the most.
The worst part of all of this is that Scott denied what he did until DNA proved t hat he was a damned liar.
Even worse than that, he took a plea deal that only got him 90 days in jail.
St. Germain told local station KUSA-TV, He got 90 days we got life.
She went on to say, via the cards in her video: I IMMEDIATELY kicked him out.
Our divorce was final Sept. 1, 2015.
He maintained his innocence until the DNA evidence came back POSITIVE.
Only then did he accept a plea bargain.
Another card warns parents: Stranger Danger is a joke.
MONSTERS look and act NORMAL.
Speaking to KUSA-TV, St. Germain finishes: I keep saying I didn t do anything brave my kid did.
My kid did the bravest thing, St. Germain told KUSA.
She spoke out against the person who sexually assaulted her within 24 hours.
Here is the video, via YouTube:This is one brave lady, and her child is even braver.
Parents, if you kids tell you something horrible has happened to them, please listen.
Do not sweep it aside.
Do not act like they are trying to get attention.
Let me tell you it s usually true, and you owe them protection.
That is your job as a parent.Watch the news report on this powerful story below, via KUSA-TV:Featured image via video screen capture