On the night that Donald Trump won his second straight primary (with a massive lead), a despondent Glenn Beck decided it was time to take action to support his favored candidate, Ted Cruz.
He announced on his Facebook page that he would begin fasting on Monday to push Ted Cruz to victory in the upcoming Nevada Republican Caucus somehow.In the post, which raised eyebrows and made eyes roll, the ever melodramatic Beck told his fans: I would like to ask you to join me and my family Monday in a fast for Ted Cruz, our country and the Nevada caucus.
https://www.facebook.com/GlennBeck/posts/10153969800938188He also said he would be spending every waking hour until the caucus on February 23 devoted to promoting Cruz.
He s not kidding.
On Sunday, Cruz will leave behind the guy from Duck Dynasty and replace him with Beck, who will host an event for the candidate in Las Vegas.
On Monday, Beck will again join Cruz, this time in Reno.Beck s support for Cruz seems to come singularly from his disdain for Donald Trump.
For reasons that remain unclear, Beck has a seething hatred for Trump that borders on obsessive.
It s odd because in so many ways bigotry, race-baiting, xenophobia the two are very much alike.In a hilarious show of how little self-awareness he possesses, Beck infamously declared that any Tea Party supporter who favored Trump was actually just a racist.While he questioned whether Trump s supporters are genuine Tea Partiers, Beck said of them, If you were a Tea Party person, then you were lying.
You were lying.
It was about Barack Obama being black.
It was about him being a Democrat.
Talk about biting the hand that feeds you.
Beck is no doubt right that much of the Tea Party movement was based in racism, but supporting Trump isn t contrary to that movement.
It s the logical conclusion.It s unclear what Beck hopes to accomplish by starving himself and his family in order to help Ted Cruz get elected.
Yet again it appears that Beck is trying to explicitly tie religious ceremony into the race.
And fasting appears to be Beck s go to way of getting God s attention.
Just last summer, he went on a six day fast to get ready for an appearance in Birmingham.
He told his fans: Join us in fasting and prayer that we may all be humble enough to not only hear the path of The Almighty but we may be willing to walk it with honor, Courage, Love and unity.
Last week he boldly declared that God killed Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia in order to ensure Ted Cruz became president.
Apparently unwilling to let go and let God, Beck now hopes to nudge Him along a little bit more with his mass hunger strike.Featured image via Glenn Beck