When you ve never been taught what a figure of speech is, you will take everything everyone ever says to you very literally.
Same goes for Christian fundamentalists who practice the literal interpretation of the Bible.
Candace Cameron Bure seems to be both.While appearing on Fox & Friends, the Fuller House star and sister of the uber fundie Christian Kirk Cameron, decided she would weigh in on what Madeleine Albright joked about while introducing Hillary Clinton at a recent campaign event.
Albright said: There s a special place in hell for women who don t help each other.
It was meant in jest, and clearly not to be taken as telling women they literally belong in the hell as described in the Bible.
However, Bure didn t see it that way at all.
Visibly upset, she tells the Fox hosts: Anyone that can even joke, if it was a joke, about hell.
There s nothing to me that s funny about that If anybody actually read their Bible and saw what the description of Hell, it s disgusting.
To be honest, what would be scarier for a lot of people would be, there s a special place at the bottom of a Chuck-E-Cheese ball pit but I digress.Bure took this comment made by Albright very personally and then somehow magically linked it to abortion, because why not?
Then she said: To say that they re not feminists, that they re anti-women if they re not supporting another woman is you know, that to me is what s wrong with feminism.
That is a turnoff for me as a woman.
Someone clearly missed the day in her Women s Study course that explained part of feminism is empowering all women, even women who in their abortion choices, choose life and those who advocate for that cause.
That s their right if they so choose.
No one is telling Bure how to think, and Albright was simply pointing out the fact that if any woman were to tell another woman, say Candace Cameron Bure, that they were wrong for the mere fact that they re a woman, then there s a special place in H-E- double hockey sticks, for them.All too often in society, women s voices are placed on the back burner.
This happens in the home, it happens in the workplace, and in happens in politics.
And yes, women, who don t help each other are of detriment to not only those in their immediate surroundings, but in all of society.
Women can sometimes find themselves trying with all their might to compete in a male-dominated world, and while men pat themselves on the back regularly help each other rise up, women don t often have that luxury, because they are working hard on themselves.
That s why feminism is important.
That s why what Madeleine Albright said is true, and that s why women everywhere need to make sure we are making all women inclusive in the workplace, in politics, and in society.So, Bure, while your concerns are heard, they are unfounded.
You are more than allowed to be pro-life and still advocate for other women to be heard and seen as well.
And no, Madeleine Albright doesn t actually want people to go to hell.
It s a figure of speech.
Video/Featured image from Raw Story YouTube