Trump s not backing down from his in your face style anytime soon.
That s the problem with our country, we don t have fighters in our country.
And his critics are just gonna have to deal with it.
Donald Trump is on the cover of Time magazine, and the headline reads: Deal with it.
The meme-worthy photo shoot features the Republican presidential hopeful posing with a 27-year-old American bald eagle the emblem of the United States.
Every frame was the same, Schoeller told TIME.
Mr. Trump knows exactly how he looks, and he strikes one pose and doesn t move.
The same could not be said for 27-year-old Uncle Sam, who was hit by a car in the 1990s and has since segued into a life on the educational and entertainment circuits.
He s very difficult to photograph, said Schoeller.
If you ask him to look up a little bit, he says no or he just doesn t do it.
He literally has one angle.
If I ask him to smile, he puts on a big grin and then he goes back to his Zoolander blue steel look.
The blue steel look appears, sans eagle, on the cover of this week s TIME.It s a look America has grown very accustomed to since Trump became a household name in the 1980s and one they ve been showing their love for more than ever in recent months.The Republican front-runner said it all on Wednesday that when it comes to the polls in the crowded 2016 presidential race, the only thing constant is Trump.
Asked at a news conference ahead of a town-hall forum in New Hampshire who he saw as his strongest rival in the crowded Republican field, Trump said: You know it changes.
The only thing constant is Trump.
Via: UK Daily Mail They re going up and down like yo-yos, he said of his Republican rivals.
But I ve been up there for a long time and I hope I m going to be up there for a long time.
Saying he had seen newspaper reports that he would grow tired of the presidential race, Trump said: I m not going anywhere folks.
I m not doing this for my health.
I m doing this to make America great again.
Here is a great interview by Entertainment Tonight:Trump told TIME magazine, I don t have a racist bone in my body.
The fact that I want a strong border and the fact that I don t want illegal immigrants pouring into this country, that doesn t make me a racist, it means I love this country and I want to save this country.