Donald Trump is supposed to have several important phone calls with world leaders today, amounting to what is being billed as a day of diplomacy.
Given Trump s inexperience and impulsive statements, world leaders are especially skeptical of what his being leader of the free world (*SHUDDER*) will really mean for the world.
So, one would think that he would spend his morning preparing for his calls, right?
WRONG.Instead, Trump is up and tweeting, when he is, as of this writing, set to be on a call with the Prime Minister of Japan at any moment.
His target?
Why, the press, of course.
The Washington Post and the New York Times have been on Trump s hit list for quite some time, and that thorny relationship has gotten worse, since Trump s White House is leaking like a sieve regarding his temperament and inability to do his job as president.
It was the Washington Post who said Trump s team is portraying him as a clueless child, which of course enraged the thin-skinned sorry excuse for a president.
To that end, Trump fired off a series of tweets doing his best to discredit those outlets:The failing @nytimes has been wrong about me from the very beginning.
Said I would lose the primaries, then the general election.
FAKE NEWS!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 28, 2017Thr coverage about me in the @nytimes and the @washingtonpost gas been so false and angry that the times actually apologized to its .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 28, 2017 dwindling subscribers and readers.They got me wrong right from the beginning and still have not changed course, and never will.
DISHONEST Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 28, 2017So, in other words, Trump is proving the aides who are leaking the details of his alarming behavior to the press right.
He is clueless, dangerously impulsive, petty, and acting like a child.
In fact, they are likely leaking this information to the public in a desperate attempt to make Trump behave like a world leader rather than like the man baby that he is, since he gets all of his information from the cable news shows.Whatever the reason, keep the leaks coming, folks.
The American public and, indeed, the press need to keep the pressure on Trump and let the nation and world know just what a dangerous fool is currently occupying the Oval Office.#RESIST.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images