Nancy Pelosi just flunked Constitutional Law!
Pelosi repeated her request that the National Park Service deny a permit to an alleged alt-right demonstration called Patriot Prayer.
Pelosi said not allow these elements to use a national park to spew forth their venom.
She then said that protecting people was the Park Service s first responsibility.
This is a trend of the left lately they claim stopping free speech, protests and removing statues have become homeland security issues.
Jeh Johnson just commented this week that we must remove statues because they ve become a homeland security issue.
See where this is going?
The left claims to be for free speech but in reality they aren t for anyone on the opposing side speaking out.
This is getting into dangerous territory but not because of what the right is doing IronicJEH JOHNSON SUDDENLY THINKS CONFEDERATE STATUES ARE A THREAT TO HOMELAND SECURITY: This is rich!
The guy who opened our borders to criminals during the Obama era is now telling us that statues are a homeland security threat?
Former Obama administration official Jeh Johnson said on This Week with Martha Raditz that the removal of Confederate statues was a matter of public safety and homeland security on Sunday Oh brother!According to David French of National Review:Where to begin?
First, It s flat-out unconstitutional for the park service to deny a permit to any group simply because public officials deem the group s speech venomous.
Even if their speech is truly vile, they have the same right of access to the park as any other expressive organization.Second, while we want law enforcement to protect people, it is also required to protect liberty.
Any police force that maintains security without also protecting liberty has failed in its core constitutional function.Third, the quote is wrong.
She s obviously referring to Oliver Wendell Holmes s famous statement in Schenck v. United States that The most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre and causing a panic.
Fire.
Wolf.
Whatever.
It s not important compared to the next point below.Fourth, anyone who quotes Schenck is quoting bad law.
In fact, it s one of the most odious free speech decisions in the Court s history.
The court upheld the Espionage Act conviction of the secretary of the Socialist Party of America for writing and distributing a pamphlet opposing the draft during World War I. Schenck could never be sent to jail for this conduct today.