Ted Cruz is trying to differentiate himself from Republican front runner Donald Trump by any means possible.
Recently, Trump shocked everyone by calling controversial anti-trans bathroom bills discriminatory and stating that transgender individuals should be allowed to use whatever bathroom they feel corresponds to their identity.
Meanwhile, Cruz has decided to go the complete opposite way as his rival, ramping up the bigotry.
His latest comments are transphobia at its worst.While in Indiana last weekend, Cruz was filmed talking about his bathroom policies, making it perfectly clear that he is on board with divisive anti-trans bathroom legislation.
Despite that fact that no trans person has ever attacked anyone in a bathroom, Cruz insisted that the only bathrooms trans people should be able to use are the ones in their own homes.
The Texas senator told reporters: Every one of us has the right to live our lives as we wish.
Then, Cruz s lack of intelligence resulted in an epic contradiction.
If any one of us wants to dress up as a woman or man and wants to live as woman or man and believes that we might be something other than what we were born, God has made each of us with free will and the ability to choose to do that if man to wants to dress as a woman, and live as a woman, and have a bathroom at home.
A reporter clarified with the presidential hopeful, So, then they shouldn t use the bathroom out in public?
Yes, exactly.
Cruz drove his bigoted point home: You don t have a right to intrude upon the rights of others because whether or not a man believes he s a woman, there are a lot of women who would like to be able to use a public restroom in peace without having a man there and when there are children involved, you don t have a right to impose your lifestyle on others.
Here s the video, courtesy of the American Bridge:Cruz has definitely amped up his anti-trans rhetoric over the last few days.
The GOPer recently released an ad about transgender people using public restrooms with the message it s not appropriate, it s not safe and has also made anti-trans jokes insulting Donald Trump.
In the same weekend that this awful video was taken, Cruz called transgender protections political correctness on steroids.
Cruz has also voiced his support for North Carolina s bathroom laws, which prevent transgender people from using the restroom they re most comfortable with.If you care anything for the LGBT community and their right to freedom, Ted Cruz is definitely making himself out to be one of the community s biggest threats.Featured image via Joe Raedle / Getty Images