You d think we would no longer be surprised when an athlete or someone famous gets away with being in trouble, especially a white, male athlete.
However, nope, this is still pretty damn awful.After Ryan Lochte s drunken douchebaggery vandalizing a gas station in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, then subsequently lying about it, and then getting away with it, he s now likely about to join the ABC hit show Dancing with the Stars.According to US Weekly: Multiple sources tell Us Weekly that Ryan Lochte signed on for season 23 of Dancing With the Stars following his Rio robbery scandal, in which he said he overexaggerated his story about being robbed at gunpoint.
Apparently, an insider has said: Doing DWTS will be great for Ryan s image!
He will be able to show America that he s a good guy who made a mistake.
He s still an Olympic champion!
He will be great on the show.
A good guy who made a mistake.
Ha!It must be nice to be able to get away with that sort of behavior and then given the opportunity to make money with a reality television celebrity dance competition show.The cast for the upcoming season hasn t been announced but according to US, reps for the show never comment on casting rumors, but this season will likely include a few Olympic athletes.
And unfortunately, a scandal always intrigues the masses and people would likely tune in to see a douchebag act like a fool on the dance floor.
Who cares about principles, really?Lochte did apologize, saying: I want to apologize for my behavior last weekend for not being more careful and candid in how I described the events of that early morning and for my role in taking the focus away from the many athletes fulfilling their dreams of participating in the Olympics.
So, basically, he s sorry he got caught.
He also did a sorry, not sorry, because he added: It s traumatic to be out late with your friends in a foreign country with a language barrier and have a stranger point a gun at you and demand money to let you leave You still lied about it, Lochte, and you re a 32-year-old man grow up.We, as a society, really need to stop rewarding those who do bad things.
It perpetuates the dialogue, the very true dialogue, that some are above the law and not worth of condemnation, and in some cases, punishment.Hopefully, it s just a rumor that Lochte with appear on the ABC hit show, but if not, maybe they ll come to their senses and choose someone else who children can look up to.Featured Photo by Matt Hazlett/Getty Images