Donald Trump has access to a wealth of information as President, but seems content relying on Breitbart and other slimy right-wing propaganda mills as the sole source of what he thinks are facts.
Recently, The Donald dissolved into a complete mess after a Breitbart article began circulating among his staff that claimed Obama tapped Trump Tower s wires something the President, no matter whom it is, can not do.
To clear up the confusion, CNN s Jake Tapper reached out to Trump administration officials, and it turns out that, yes, the situation is just as stupid as it seems.
Donald Trump did get his news from Breitbart, not the wealth of government information to which he has access.
WH officials with whom I spoke said POTUS got the info about wiretap from media Breitbart, Levin not from govt sources, Tapper tweeted Sunday.WH officials with whom I spoke said POTUS got the info about wiretap from media Breitbart, Levin not from govt sources.
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) March 5, 2017 Obviously FBI/DOJ wiretap of POTUS would be HUGE story.
One illegally ordered by previous POTUS even bigger.
BUT WH officials have no proof, he added.Obviously FBI/DOJ wiretap of POTUS would be HUGE story.
One illegally ordered by previous POTUS even bigger.
BUT WH officials have no proof Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) March 5, 2017Tapper says that most reporters are digging on this but everyone to whom they have spoken in the intelligence community, like the rest of us, has no idea what the f*ck Trump is talking about.
Moreover we cannot pretend we haven t been here before, w/POTUS putting out wild accusations that are untethered to reality, Tapper adds, listing a few examples of many.
Obama s birth certificate/ Vaccines/ Ted Cruz s father & Lee Harvey Oswald / crowd sizes/ Vince Foster / Murder rate / 3-5 illegal votes.
4/Moreover we cannot pretend we haven't been here before, w/POTUS putting out wild accusations that are untethered to reality.
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) March 5, 20175/Obama's birth certificate/ Vaccines/ Ted Cruz's father & Lee Harvey Oswald / crowd sizes/ Vince Foster / Murder rate / 3-5 illegal votes Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) March 5, 2017 In any case, will continue to report.
WH call for Congress to find evidence of POTUS claim with no further comment is not proof, Tapper says, adding that he has requested an interview with President Obama to clear the matter up (which totally needs to happen and promises to be hilarious).Journalists are not alone in being baffled by Trump s ridiculous claim that the former President ordered a wiretap which, once again, he could not do.
On Sunday, vocal Obama opponent Marco Rubio said he has no idea where Trump s claim comes from either.
I m not sure what it is he is talking about, Rubio says.
Perhaps the President has information that is not yet available to us or to the public.
And if it s true, obviously we re going to find out very quickly.
And if it isn t, then obviously he ll have to explain what he meant by it.
Unfortunately, as Tapper notes, the information wasn t a closely-held government secret.
It was the result of the ravings of a known far-Right conspiracy theorist who has admitted he doesn t even have the evidence to back his claims; he just wants to see Obama investigated.President Obama should do the interview.
He s so past the point of caring what these idiots think that it should be hilarious.Featured image via Getty Images