While many of us are still trying to understand why the hell a presidential candidate would call for the assassination of another presidential candidate, some Americans are still in denial and holding onto the false belief that Republican nominee Donald Trump is not a complete dangerous psychopath.Following Trump s recent Second Amendment comments suggesting that Hillary Clinton should be shot dead, CNN s Don Lemon held a discussion last night to discuss the severity of his comments.
It didn t take long before he and Republican congressional candidate Dan Bongino got into a vicious fight over Bongino s blatant ignorance.Insisting that Trump s comments were not actually implying violence, Bongino brushed the matter off and showed a horrifying amount of disrespect when he claimed he was trying not to break down in laughter over Lemon s concern about Trump s remarks.
Lemon fought back and said Trump needed to be more accountable and responsible with his words, and Bongino countered, You didn t come into this with a clear and open mind!
That s when Lemon lost it.
Reacting to an unfathomable lack of logic, Lemon responded the way everyone should.
The furious host went off: What you re saying right now makes no sense!
I m sitting at home, I m watching Donald Trump.
I have two ears and I have two eyes and I can see the reactions We re not stupid!
You should be ashamed of yourself!
Bongino yelled back at Lemon for talking to me as if I m a child!
and as Lemon criticized him for lying , Bongino s temper tantrum got so bad that he yelled for the network to cut off his mic: You don t know crap about this, Don!
You re a TV guy!
I was a Secret Service Agent!
Now cut off my mic!
Do what you wanna do!
Bongino s request was ignored, and Lemon (with the rest of the guests) spent the remaining segment trying to make Bongino understand why Trump s comments were so unsettling.
The two men spent the show basically at each other s throats.
Bongino continued to deny the fact that the Secret Service is actually taking this matter very seriously despite the evidence Lemon kept pointing out, and the CNN host became increasingly frustrated with Bongino s stupidity.You can watch Lemon unload on Bongino below:Featured image is a screenshot