Conspiracy-loving conservatives are once again all over last summer s murder of Seth Rich, a DNC staffer they believe leaked the DNC s emails to Wikileaks rather than Russia.
They re yelling about it as loudly as they can because if it were true, then it would serve to demonstrate that there s no connection between Trump s campaign and Russia.
This latest round of frothing over Rich s death began when Rod Wheeler, a legal commentator at Fox News, claimed he could confirm that Rich leaked those emails during an appearance Fox 5 D.C. Now Rich s family is demanding that Wheeler stop altogether, which should make others shut up too out of simple respect for them.
But some don t seem to care.Rich s family sent a cease-and-desist letter to Wheeler, threatening legal action if he continued to spew his conspiracy theories about Rich s death.
It seems, though, that Sean Hannity is either unaware of the family s wishes, or he just plain doesn t care.
Chances are, it s the latter, since he wants to continue telling himself that Trump is his lord and savior and perfect in every way.
He tweeted:Seth Rich was murdered last year in what officials believe was a botched robbery.
Hannity has been screaming about it on Twitter ever since Wheeler claimed to know stuff on television, ignoring key facts and statements about the case is his desperation to prove that there was zero collusion between Trump s campaign and Russia.Rich s family blasted Wheeler for his statements, as well they should.
A sudden death in any family is exceptionally traumatic.
They said: Your statements and actions have caused, and continue to cause, the Family severe mental anguish and emotional distress.
Your behavior appears to have been deliberate, intentional, outrageous, and in patent disregard of the Agreement and the obvious damage and suffering it would cause the Family Your improper and unauthorized statements, many of which are false and have no basis in fact, have also injured the memory and reputation of Seth Rich and have defamed and injured the reputation and standing of the members of the Family.
Hannity should be castigated for his insistence on pushing this conspiracy theory to his not insignificant Twitter audience, as should Newt Gingrich and the Fox News network for pushing it on the air.
This story has repeatedly been debunked, and the family wants everyone to shut it and let Rich rest in peace.If the story were true, it might be easier to understand why the media wouldn t leave it alone against Rich s family s wishes.
But it s a vapid conspiracy that right-wingers like Hannity are pushing in a pathetic, desperate attempt to deflect attention away from the Trump-Russia connection.Featured image by Paul Zimmerman via Getty Images