Soooo, NYC Mayor de Blasio wants you to believe he just wants to visit Iowa.
He s been running for President since before he became Mayor, that s why he ran for Mayor.
And even in progressive NYC, everyone still despises him for doing nothing.
And yes, he s further left than Hillary and Obama.Via Free Beacon: New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio (D.) on Tuesday repeatedly denied that he is running for president in 2020 during a trip to Iowa, a state that automatically begs questions about White House ambitions if politicians head there.
No, de Blasio said.
I m not running for president.
The New York Times noted, however, that de Blasio made Iowa his first stop since his easy re-election to the mayorship.
The Iowa caucuses launch the nominating process each presidential election cycle, so any jaunts to the midwestern state attract attention.The Washington Post described the far-left mayor as fielding versions of the 2020 question throughout the day.
He described himself as focused on his second term.De Blasio is a total phony HERE S A PREVIOUS REPORT ON DE BLASIO S PROGRESSIVE AGENDA:Why would anyone expect anything else from a mayor who criticized Barack Obama for being too conservative and too afraid to take the bold kind of action that President Roosevelt took during the Great Depression.
Last week, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio unveiled a 13-point national Progressive Agenda that is being touted as the liberal Contract with America.
The aim is for the Progressive Agenda to become the basis for the Democratic Party s main economic policies, including those of its 2016 presidential candidate.De Blasio has compared his plan to the Contract with America, a document released by the Republican Party during the 1994 congressional election and drawn up by future House Speaker Newt Gingrich to serve as the GOP policy agenda.Now WND documents that most of the 13 points in de Blasio s Progressive Agenda can also be found in the manifestos and literature of the Communist Party USA and the Socialist Party USA.The full progressive plan, entitled, The Progressive Agenda to Combat Income Inequality, can be found on the agenda s new website.Here is a comparison of the Agenda s plan with literature from the manifestos and writings of the Community Party USA, or CPUSA, and the Socialist Party USA, or SPUSA.
Progressive Agenda: Raise the federal minimum wage, so that it reaches $15/hour, while indexing it to inflation.
SPUSA: We call for a minimum wage of $15 per hour, indexed to the cost of living.
CPUSA: Calls for struggles for peace, equality for the racially and nationally oppressed, equality for women job creation programs, increased minimum wage.
Even with ultra-right control of the Federal government, peoples legislative victories, such as increasing the minimum wage, can be won on an issue-by-issue basis locally, statewide, and even nationally.
Progressive Agenda: Pass comprehensive immigration reform to grow the economy and protect against exploitation of low-wage workers.
SPUSA: We defend the rights of all immigrants to education, health care, and full civil and legal rights and call for an unconditional amnesty program for all undocumented people.
We oppose the imposition of any fees on those receiving amnesty.
We call for full citizenship rights upon demonstrating residency for six months.
CPUSA: Declares the struggle for immigrant rights is a key component of the struggle for working class unity in our country today.
Progressive Agenda: Make Pre-K, after-school programs and childcare universal.
SPUSA: We support public child care starting from infancy, and public education starting at age three, with caregivers and teachers of young children receiving training, wages, and benefits comparable to that of teachers at every other level of the educational system.
Progressive Agenda: Earned Income Tax Credit.
Implement the Buffett Rule so millionaires pay their fair share.
SPUSA: We call for a steeply graduated income tax and a steeply graduated estate tax.
CPUSA: No taxes for workers and low and middle income people; progressive taxation of the wealthy and private corporations.
Dems hail beginning of revolution De Blasio criticized Obama as too conservative to assert a progressive economic vision and too afraid to take the bold kind of action that President Roosevelt took during the Great Depression, reported the liberal news network.Speaking at the Progressive Agenda launch event outside the Capitol building last Tuesday, de Blasio said something is changing in America.
It s time to take that energy and crystallize it into an agenda that will make a difference, he said.
We ll be calling on leaders and candidates to address these issues, to stiffen their backbones, to be clear and to champion these progressive policies.
Read more at WND