Gun enthusiasts across the country have been expressing their rage over President Obama s common sense attempts to close the gun show loophole and make America safer by keeping firearms out of the hands of people who should not have them like those who would start shooting up a building because they are displeased with the idea of keeping children safe from violent criminals.Ever since Obama announced his planned executive action on guns, conservatives have been preparing for war on the President s policies.
We ve been hearing from the right that President Obama is making a gun grab that he s coming to round-up law-abiding gun owners and something, something Dark Side.
And, of course, as we saw with Robert Dear and the extreme anti-Planned Parenthood rhetoric, one brave ammosexual decided to do what he viewed as his duty and offer up an armed opposition to Obama s policies.At around 6 p.m. on Tuesday, police in Redding, California responded to a report of shots fired at an apartment building.
According to a statement from the Shasta County Sheriff s Department, what law enforcement found was sort of expected.
A white man in his 50s had fired 6-8 shots into neighboring apartments because he was mad at Obama for attempting to reform gun laws.
If that s not bad enough, he also had a letter from the NRA taped to his window.
Once police arrived, he began shooting at them: Officers made verbal contact with the subject, described as a white adult male in his 50 s via a patrol car PA system.
The suspect would open the door to the apartment briefly and yell at the officers.
Witnesses on scene later advised detectives that the suspect was upset about the recent legislation regarding gun laws issued by President Obama.
The suspect was not compliant with officers who directed the suspect to exit his apartment with his hands up.
During this time, officers attempted to subdue the suspect by utilizing less lethal bean bag rounds which had no effect on the suspect s compliance.
An attempt to utilize a police K-9 to subdue the suspect was also unsuccessful.
After further commands by officers for the suspect to surrender, the suspect exited the apartment holding a handgun in his right hand, leveling it at officers who were tactically positioned outside his apartment, in the parking lot near parked vehicles and nearby trees, the release notes.
Nine officers engaged the suspect with handguns and rifles subsequently striking the suspect multiple times.
The suspect was declared deceased on scene.
We heard the five shots everyone was screaming, resident David Rice recalled.
He came out screaming Obama!
Obama!
Obama!
(Police) told him to come out with (his) hands up, and he kept telling them No, no, no.
One woman recounted being briefly taken hostage by the anti-Obama shooter, who grabbed her and pulled her into his apartment: As soon as he shut the door, he hugged me and he kissed me on the forehead.
He was aiming at a guy, and then he just got sloppy he was shooting everywhere.
The shooter, whose name has not been released, had a documented history of mental issues and was a felon, but was somehow able to get a gun in other words, he was exactly the sort of person the President s plan aims to keep from being weapons.Fortunately, no one was hurt (aside from the shooter) this time.Watch a video of the shooter below:(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));EXCLUSIVE: Cell phone video captures exactly what happened at a deadly officer involved shooting Tuesday night in Posted by Madison Wade on Wednesday, January 6, 2016You can also view a report on the shooting here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W0-aOi2nkHk?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0&w=560&h=315]Featured image via screengrab