The GOP implosion we have been waiting for has finally come full circle.
Now that John Kasich and Ted Cruz have bowed out of the GOP race for the 2016 presidential nomination, Trump pretty much has it in the bag.
There s just one problem though: not all avowed Republicans are supporting him.
In fact, there s an active #NeverTrump movement, and even a #RepublicansForHillary movement.
In other words, sane conservatives are willing to do all they can to stop Trump.
Now, we can add another name to the list of prominent republicans to the list of those who cannot find it within themselves to back Trump: House Speaker and GOP Convention Chair Paul Ryan.The New York Times reports that Speaker Ryan insists that the GOP establishment needs a standard bearer and Trump is not that.
Ryan goes on to say, I don t want to underplay what he accomplished.
That being said, though, Ryan believes that the GOP needs a nominee who appeals to a vast majority of Americans.
He also said: We hope that our nominee aspires to Lincoln and Reaganesque.
I think conservatives want to know does he share our values and our principles.
There s a lot of questions conservatives are going to want answers to.
Well, Mr. Ryan, sane people, be they liberals, conservatives, or somewhere in between, definitely want nothing to do with the bigotry that Trump is spewing.
He is not a man we need anywhere near any position of power.
however, you and your GOP compatriots have spent eons playing to the bigotry of the Stupid People of America, and this is your result.
You created this monster.
Now, you handle it.
Get rid of Trump at all costs, unless you want your party to die a slow and painful death sometime between now and November.
You are already more than well on your way.Trump is dangerous.
Your job is to put country before party, not the other way around.
Perhaps your speaking sense today, Speaker Ryan, will rub off on your fellow republican politicians.
We can hope and dream, right?Featured image via Gage Skidmore/Flickr