Ammon Bundy and his wayward crew of temper tantrum-throwing white guys with guns are now claiming that God talked to them and told them to seize the federal wildlife refuge.On Friday, Bundy told a meeting of fellow right-wing domestic terrorists that he refuses to end the occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge because the Lord told him to go there in the first place.
I was asked to do this by the Lord.
I did it how he told me to do it.
It sounds like Bundy and his band are suffering from a form of mental illness.
Because the Mormon church that Bundy is a member of sure doesn t agree with him.In a statement earlier this month, officials from the Church of Latter-day Saints rejected Bundy s claim that his seizure of federal property had anything to do with religion.
Church leaders strongly condemn the armed seizure of the facility and are deeply troubled by the reports that those who have seized the facility suggest that they are doing so based on scriptural principles.
This armed occupation can in no way be justified on a scriptural basis.
Exactly, and that is why we can no longer tolerate this armed occupation.
Bundy and his pals are committing treason and domestic terrorism.
They have illegally carried guns on federal property, along with breaking and entering and threatening violence against federal officials.
They have forced the town of Burns to live in fear as schools and businesses are closed to avoid putting innocent children and adults in harm s way.If Bundy and his group were a bunch of armed black people or Muslims, federal and local law enforcement would have already riddled the building with bullets on the first day and Ammon Bundy would look like Swiss cheese.But because these guys are white rednecks with guns, law enforcement is giving them free reign to do as they please.
Bundy thinks him and his buddies should be able to walk free when this is all over and they assume the government will give in to their demands.
If that were to happen, nothing will stop these terrorists from becoming more emboldened in the future.
Perhaps they ll set their sights on the Capitol building or the White House next.This armed takeover has been totally unjustified from the very beginning.
Not only have Dwight and Steven Hammond, the arsonist ranchers whom Bundy says he is fighting for, rejected his cause, history and the law are firmly against him as well.Bundy claims the federal government stole the land from ranchers, but that is far from the case.According to Oregon Live, the federal government has legally held the title to all public lands in Oregon since it was a territory.
After exhaustive research, the Supreme Court also ruled in 1902 and 1935 that this is the case.
Furthermore, ranchers have willingly sold and been paid fair value for their land by the federal government to expand the wildlife reserve over the years.In short, the Bundys do not have religion, history, nor the law on their side.
They are terrorists, pure and simple, and they need to be arrested and thrown in prison, or treated just like we have treated terrorists in the Middle East, who ironically enough also claim religion justifies their cause.Featured Image: WMUR