Republican presidential hopeful and Texas senator Ted Cruz has earned the nickname Lyin Ted for a reason, and he s in no rush to clean up his tarnished image anytime soon.Proving that he s completely worthy of being known as the least-liked GOPer, Cruz mingled with voters at The Pie Pan restaurant in Evansville this weekend and lied to their faces.
For over an hour, Cruz met and took photos with voters, clearly trying to prove that he wasn t Lucifer, as former House Speaker John Boehner recently suggested.During this meet-and-greet, one of the issues Cruz spoke about was Obamacare.
Cruz said: The top two legislative agenda items I ve got are repealing Obamacare and passing a simple flat tax, abolishing the IRS.
Everything was going smoothly for Cruz until toward the end of his visit, when an older couple introduced Cruz to Scott, a disabled man in a wheelchair.
Although some of the conversation is muffled, it is clear that the man is concerned about the Affordable Care Act being repealed, stating that people like him would not be able to get health insurance at all.
This concern is completely valid even current House Speaker Paul Ryan has said that putting people with pre-existing conditions into high-risk pools would make healthcare unaffordable for many Americans.
Cruz began to respond and say, There s no doubt that we need to provide care before the man interrupted: But it was never done before.
It was never done.
Nobody did it.
Cruz, heartless as ever, replied with a straight-up lie: I can tell you millions have lost their health care at the same time.
The millions that Cruz is referring to are those who had policies that didn t meet Obamacare standards.
Factcheck.org has actually straightened this false GOP talking point right out it turns out that those people didn t lose their insurance at all they were offered replacements that did fall in line with the ACA instead.
But of course, Cruz isn t going to bother with the truth.You can watch Cruz lie to a disabled man s face below:The feed unfortunately cut out, but not before the man confronting Cruz could point to Scott and say, Well, but it made a difference to some.
Those some people who the man is referring to are the 16.9 million Americans that now have affordable health insurance thanks to the Affordable Care Act.
Repealing Obamacare is a huge disservice to Americans, and it s a shame that Cruz s attitude toward those concerns is I don t give a f*ck.
Featured image is a screenshot