Apparently, the fact that 70 percent of women view Donald Trump unfavorably is making Republicans think that what he needs is a running mate who also treats women like shit.A top Republican consultant thinks Trump and former disgraced Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich would make the perfect political pair because their six wives combined means they understand women better than anyone else.
I think Newt is lobbying to be the vice president, and I think their people are paying a lot of attention to him, Ed Rollins told the National Review on Monday.
It d be a ticket with six former wives, kind of like a Henry VIII thing.
They certainly understand women.
Wow.
Just wow.Republicans are facing an unprecedented opposition from female voters and their solution to fix that is to double down on the whole let s nominate someone who disrespects women idea.Donald Trump is on wife number three.
And given his history, you can bank on him eventually seeking wife number four when Melania is no longer a 10 in his eyes.He cheated on his first wife with the woman who became his second wife and was quick to start a relationship with the third Mrs. Trump during the separation.And that relationship history is probably why Trump is so keen to count Gingrich as one of his top allies.Let s not forget that Newt Gingrich also cheated on his first wife with his second wife and callously asked for a divorce while she was recovering from cancer surgery in the hospital.
Then he cheated on his second wife with the woman who would become his current wife.
In 1993, Gingrich began an affair with House of Representatives staffer Callista Bisek and divorced his second wife after she refused to grant him the open marriage he wanted.
Keep in mind, this hypocrisy unfolded as Gingrich and Republicans sought to impeach President Bill Clinton for his affair with Monica Lewinsky.And so, Trump has included Gingrich on his short list of vice-presidential candidates and some Republicans are thrilled because they think their six marriages make them experts when it comes to women and that they ll somehow be able to make women flock to their campaign.Frankly, it s insulting.If Republicans really think this is their best strategy to persuade women to vote for the GOP in November they truly never understood women at all.
Just the idea that being like Henry VIII, who had two of his wives executed, would make them somehow more appealing to women demonstrates perfectly just how terribly Republicans have treated women.
They literally think emulating a womanizing 16th century English king is the best way to deal with women in the 21st century.
If anything can make MORE women hate Trump and the GOP, this is it.Featured Image: Wikimedia