Trey Gowdy is ticked!
About eight hours ago, Adam Schiff and I looked Dan Coats in the eyes and we assured him that there would be no selective leaking of his testimony to us, Gowdy told Outfront host Erin Burnett.
And I ll be damned if eight hours later, there aren t three different leaks with what he told us.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lvLM77MP2wgSeveral stories have emerged with reported details of the testimony given by Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats in a closed-door session before House investigators.Here s one from NBC:Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats tells House investigators Pres.
Trump seemed obsessed with Russia probe https://t.co/v39fPksqlb pic.twitter.com/5pRPvRRYJQ NBC News (@NBCNews) June 23, 2017Trey Gowdy who sits on the House Intelligence Committee sounded irate about the leaked testimony so soon after he and his Democratic counterpart on the committee, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) promised Coats that what he said in the session would not be made public.About eight hours ago, Adam Schiff and I looked Dan Coats in the eyes and we assured him that there would be no selective leaking of his testimony to us.
And I ll be damned if eight hours later, there aren t three different leaks with what he told us.So if anyone is questioning why Congressional investigations aren t taken seriously, and are viewed as political exercises, you need to look no further than the fact that we looked one of our intelligence officials in the eyes and promised him there would be no selective leaking.
And here I am being asked about it not even eight hours later.Gowdy believes the leaks could keep other witnesses from being forthcoming in closed-door sessions.
You re going to have a chilling effect on other witnesses who want to share classified, sensitive information when it makes its way to the headlines before the transcript s even dry, Gowdy said.The South Carolina Congressman was asked about whether President Donald Trump s firing of FBI Director James Comey constitutes obstruction of justice.
Gowdy replied that he d leave that up to Special Counsel Robert Mueller.
Congress does not investigate crime, Gowdy said.
We re not equipped to do it.
We re not very good at it.