The mainstream media, Hillary, Barack and Black Lives Matter terrorists yawn The Fresno Police Department released body camera video Wednesday showing Dylan Noble repeatedly ignoring officers demands that he stop moving back and forth at a gas station parking lot and show his hands before officers fired their weapons.Police Chief Jerry Dyer said the investigation into the shooting is still underway, and he has not made a decision whether it was justified.
But he said he wanted to release the video so the public could see a more complete picture of what officers faced as they confronted Noble and had to make decisions in mere seconds.Dyer told reporters he had originally planned to release the names of both officers, but he declined to do so Wednesday because the department s legal counsel instructed him not to.
The department has intercepted several threats made against the officers involved, although not by name.
He noted that the recent shooting of 12 police officers in Dallas has caused him to fear for the safety of his own officers, especially given the controversy swirling around Noble s death.He said the officer driving the patrol car was a 20-year veteran at the department.
In a second unit was an officer with 17 years of experience 10 with the department.
The 20-year veteran had never been a part of a police shooting, but the 17-year officer was involved in a 2009 shooting.Dyer said the officers had interviewed a person who had called 911 about an armed man walking around the area.
About 12 minutes later, they encountered Noble s truck.The videos pick up from there.The cameras capture what sounds like screeching tires.
One officer notes that Noble was peeling out.
They then attempt to stop Noble, who continues to drive for some time before pulling into the gas station at Shields and Armstrong avenues.Although some of the road had no-stopping zones to Noble s right, Dyer said Noble had several opportunities to pull over.The officer behind the wheel pulls out his handgun and points it at Noble s truck as it is slowing and turning into the gas station.
Dyer said this was because the officer believed Noble may have been armed, given the officers initial call.
That officer also believed Noble was taunting him and making the officer feel as if he did have a gun, Dyer added.Both officers exit their vehicles with guns drawn.
They begin yelling for the driver to put both of his hands outside of the driver s side window of his truck.
Noble puts his left hand out of the window but not his right, despite multiple requests for him to do so.After some time, Noble begins to exit the truck.
One officer yells that he did not tell Noble to get out of the truck.
Noble appears to stagger as he gets out of the lifted truck.
He then walks a few steps away from the officers, who move toward him.
The officers repeatedly tell Noble to put both of his hands up.
He continues to walk toward and away from officers in a circular way raising and lowering each hand at different intervals.Dyer said that one officer believed Noble had something in his hand.
This was later determined to be a 4-inch-by-4-inch piece of clear plastic with what appears to be a grayish clay inside.
It is currently being analyzed by the U.S. Department of Justice.
***WARNING***VIDEO IS VERY GRAPHIC!
Watch HERE: Noble was fatally shot by officers on June 25 during traffic stop Video shows Noble repeatedly ignoring officers commands to show his hands Department has said officers believed Noble was about to shoot themVia: Fresno Bee