Yesterday, the parents of the now deceased American student from a Cincinnati, OH, suburb, Otto Warmbier, spoke out for the first time about the brutal condition of their son s body, who was returned from North Korea to the US in a coma.
Otto was on a group tour of North Korea when he was accused of trying to steal a propaganda poster.
He was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor.
After negotiations with the US State Department, Warmbier was returned from North Korea and died less than one week later.Fred and Cindy Warmbier told Fox and Friends about the harrowing moment they saw their 22-year-old son Otto on the plane after his return from 17 months in captivity.
When we got halfway up the steps, we heard this howling, Fred Warmbier said.
We looked in and Otto was on the stretcher across in the plane and he was jerking violently, making these inhuman sounds.
Otto s father Fred Warmbier painted a horrific picture of the condition in which they found their son upon his return to the U.S.: Otto had a shaved head.
He had a feeding tube coming out of his mouth.
He was blind, he was deaf.
As we looked at him and tried to comfort him, it looked like someone had taken a pair of pliers and rearranged his bottom teeth.
Today, the leftist Time magazine joined other liberal publications who appear to be working to soften the image of the evil of Kim Jong Un by suggesting the horrific torture committed against American Otto Warmbier may never have happened.
Time s headline on Twitter read: We may never know whether North Korea tortured Otto Warmbier, coroner says We may never know whether North Korea tortured Otto Warmbier, coroner says https://t.co/SspIbxH55c TIME (@TIME) September 28, 2017Actor James Woods was quick to respond to the disgusting article published by the Trump-hating publication, Time.
Woods response was brutal, yet dripping with sarcasm.
After Time suggested Warmbier may not have been tortured by North Korea, Woods replied: Yeah, I m sure he rearranged his own teeth with pliers out of boredom.
#NumbskullsYeah, I'm sure he rearranged his own teeth with pliers out of boredom.
#Numbskulls https://t.co/4AjUzAPqNR James Woods (@RealJamesWoods) September 28, 2017