The Koch Brothers have become synonymous with the corruption caused by the Citizens Union decision in the United States Supreme Court, which opened the floodgates for billionaires like them to pour as much money as they like into political campaigns.Recently the Koch Brothers have launched their first funded political campaign that has been disclosed to the public.
Through the organization, Concerned Veterans for America, which is funded through by the Koch Brothers, a $700,000 advertisement broadcast throughout Nevada began to air in support of Republican Congressman Joe Heck for Democratic Senator Harry Reid s seat in Congress.
Reid announced last year he will be retiring after 2016, and former Nevada State Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto is the Democratic candidate to replace him.The advertisement below is a pretentious pandering to Congressmen Heck s service to veterans.
Earlier this year, the son of a deceased veteran criticized Congressman Heck s inaction after his family filed a lawsuit against a Nevada Veterans Home for the death being attributed to Legionella the veteran contracted at the home.
Sadly, Dr. Heck abandoned my father and other veterans when we really needed him, Paul Demos told the Las Vegas Review Journal.
Yes, my Dad, Charles Demos Sr. is gone and we know you want us to forget all about this and go away.
Well, there are 180 brave souls still living there on average and thousands more in this great country who served and protected all of us against harm.
Do our soldiers, veterans, and families deserve this dishonor and mistreatment from our State VA Home?
Koch Industries has been one of Congressman Joe Heck s top supporters financially, as Heck has continuously fought against interests contradictory to the oil industry.
In 2015, Heck voted nearly 90 percent of the time in line with Koch Industries held positions.The Koch Brothers have already pledged to spend nearly a billions dollars on 2016 elections after spending $400 million in 2015.
After their preferred presidential candidate, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, flopped in the Republican primaries, the Koch Brothers have been linked to Senator Marco Rubio s campaign, and have funded attack ads against both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
Featured image via Addicting Info