She was there to learn more about Donald Trump in order to decide who to vote for, but after the way Trump s fans treated her in front of her disabled daughter it s clear she won t be voting for him.Jennifer Mau took her daughter Chloe to a Trump rally in Colorado in an effort to make a more informed decision on Election Day.
Mau is an independent voter and is unsure about who she wants to vote for, so she decided to attend the rally to hear Trump speak.Mau and her daughter sat with a group of disabled people during the rally, but Mau didn t stay long.After 20 minutes, it became clear that Trump wasn t the right candidate for her.
But when she attempted to leave with her daughter, she was soon under siege from some really hateful supporters of the Republican nominee, some of whom were also disabled.
When we were leaving, somebody said, Why are you leaving?
and basically struck a nerve, Mau recounted in an interview with Denver 7 News.
I said, Why are you here?
He makes fun of people like you.
Mau was referencing an outrageous incident of Trump mocking a disabled reporter.According to Mau, Trump s supporters tried to make excuses for their candidate, but Mau s mind remained unchanged.Trump s supporters harassed her and yelled at her, and one even went so far as to tell her that she doesn t love her daughter if she doesn t support Trump.
This lady is following me, screaming and yelling at me that if I loved my daughter I would vote for Trump and I need to get educated because he didn t mock somebody on purpose.
It made me sad, made me want to vomit.
Here s the video via YouTube.The Secret Service was forced to step in and escort Mau and her daughter out of the rally safely, but the ordeal left her daughter shaken.However, Trump lost more than one potential voter that day.
As it turns out, some people actually walked out of the rally with Mau in disgust on how his hardcore supporters treated her.And while we don t know for sure who Mau will be voting for on November 8th, we can be sure that it won t be for Donald Trump.Once again, Trump s supporters prove that Hillary Clinton was right to call them deplorable.Featured Image: Screenshot