In a speech on Monday, Donald Trump proposed an absurd idealogical test to gauge the American values of immigrants seeking to become naturalized citizens of the United States.
Khizr Khan and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid are calling out the billionaire bigot and daring him to take the test himself without failing.Khan made headlines when Trump attacked him after he spoke at the Democratic National Convention.
Khan talked about his son, who gave his while serving with the U.S. military in Iraq, and asked if Trump had ever even read the Constitution before offering to lend him his copy.
In response to Trump s proposed test for immigrants, Khan slammed his bigoted rhetoric and challenged the Republican nominee to take the test along with him.This is my country too.
We must make it safe as Muslim Americans it is our obligation to keep our country safe.
We reject all violence.
We support better immigration policies.
We stand as a testament to assimilation and being part of patriotic America as anyone else.I challenge Trump to take the naturalization test with me any day.
His is demagoguery and pandering for vote.
A divider like Trump can never be the steward of this country.Reid also responded to Trump s naturalization test by daring him to step up and take the test himself.
He said in no uncertain terms that he didn t have any reason to believe that Trump would be able to pass and would almost certainly fail.
Since Donald Trump wants to impose new tests on immigrants, he should take the one test every immigrant has to pass to become a United States citizen.
He would almost certainly fail, given his general ignorance and weak grasp of basic facts about American history, principles and functioning of our government.The Senate minority leader added that unlike immigrants, Donald Trump represents none of the qualities that make America great, and then proceeded to list a multitude of ways in which immigrants do just that.Trump claimed that extreme, extreme vetting is absolutely necessary to screen out any who have hostile attitudes toward our country or its principles.
He insisted that this test would include questions to gain an understanding of an applicant s stances on gender equality, gay rights, religious freedom and the rule of American law.
Anyone who fails the test would not be allowed to become a U.S. citizen and this will keep us all safe, because ISIS.Despite Trump s arguments otherwise, it was glaringly obvious that he wasn t trying to screen out just any immigrants and this was just another way he had come up with to keep Muslims out of the United States.
Ironically, Trump and most of his followers would fail the test themselves.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images