21st Century Wire says Incredibly, on the same day that US intelligence officials were due to meet President-Elect Donald Trump about the alleged Russian Hack report like clockwork, another Active Shooter event springs-up, this time at Fort Lauderdale International Airport in Florida.
Very dramatic, great television drama on CNN and elsewhere.
As a result, no US news channel covered the epic flop of the CIA s report debacle and Trump s reaction to it until the evening news cycle.Stay tuned to 21WIRE later on, for a full Daily Shooter report on today s Fort Lauderdale Airport attack.Thus far, we re told that the suspect got off a Delta Flight from Anchorage, Alaska, calmly collected his bags, went into a bathroom, loaded his gun (which we re told was stored legally in his check-on luggage) and stepped into the baggage claim area and began shooting and killing people.And just when you thought this story couldn t get any more ridiculous, we re meant to swallow this Just now, CNN reported that suspect Esteban Santiago was a member of the National Guard, served in Iraq, and was hearing ISIS voices in his head.
Anchor Erin Burnett stated on air: The shooter went into FBI office in Anchorage (Alaska) and told officials he was hearing voices in his head telling him to join ISIS!
Indeed, exactly as 21WIRE predicted yesterday:CIA #russianhacking report out Monday.
Our guess: there's nothing in it.
What will Obama do as distraction?
New hack?
#ISIS attack?
21st Century Wire (@21WIRE) January 6, 2017As expected, CNN is pushing the mental health angle, with panel experts talking-up the need for more gun control and mental health checks.
Here s the official mainstream narrative (CNN) Five people were shot dead and eight wounded in a baggage claim area at Fort Lauderdale s airport, and law enforcement sources tell CNN the suspect, identified as Esteban Santiago, had brought the firearm in his checked luggage.Authorities said it was too early to understand why the suspect, who was taken into custody without incident, opened fire at the Florida airport.Florida Sen. Bill Nelson told CNN that Santiago had a military identification card, but he did not know whether it was current.Here s the latest on what we know: Thirteen people were shot and eight were taken to hospitals, Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel said.
Five others died from their wounds.
The suspect joined the National Guard in Puerto Rico in 2007.
In April 2010, he went to Iraq for 10 months.
A spokeswoman for the Alaska Army National Guard said Santiago was in the Army Reserves before he joined the guard there in November 2014.
Lt. Col. Candis Olmstead said Santiago was discharged in August for unsatisfactory performance.
The suspect showed up several months ago at the FBI office in Anchorage, law enforcement officials told CNN.
He was interviewed and said he was hearing voices in his head, including some telling him to join ISIS.
He was taken to a hospital for a mental health evaluation, voluntarily checked himself in, the officials explained.
Law enforcement sources told CNN that the suspect flew to Florida on Friday from Alaska and had declared the firearm.
When he arrived at the airport, the suspect retrieved a bag at baggage claim, took out the gun and started firing, the sources said.
One source said he went to the bathroom to get the gun out of his luggage and emerged firing.
Sheriff Israel said the gunman likely acted alone.
The sheriff said it was too early to say whether terrorism was the motive.
Gov.
Rick Scott told reporters at the airport: The citizens of Florida will not tolerate senseless acts of evil.
Whoever is responsible will held accountable to the fullest extent of the law.
The governor said that now was time to mourn the dead and pray for hospitalized victims, not talk about gun laws.
Multiple reports on social media including tweets from former White House spokesman Ari Fleischer described the shooting.Continue the mainstream story at CNNREAD MORE DAILY SHOOTER NEWS AT: 21WIRE Daily Shooter FilesSUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER@ 21WIRE.TV