Donald Trump disgusted thousands of Americans when he mocked the disabled man.
Meryl Streep was definitely one of them, and she was able to put into words what many of us were feeling, destroying Trump last night at the Golden Globes: An actor s only job is to enter the lives of people who are different from us and let you feel what that feels like, she said.
And there were many, many, many powerful performances this year that did exactly that breathtaking, compassionate work.
There was one performance this year that stunned me.
It sank its hooks in my heart.
Not because it was good there was nothing good about it but it was effective, and it did its job.
It made its intended audience laugh and show their teeth.
It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter: someone he outranked in privilege, power and the capacity to fight back.
It kind of broke my heart when I saw it, and I still can t get it out of my head because it wasn t a movie it was real life.
Donald Trump s response was predictable, he threw a fit on Twitter:Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn't know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017First off, Meryl Streep has won more than a handful of awards, including three academy awards, which she s had 19 nominations for.Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never "mocked" a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017 Hillary flunky who lost big.
Well Donald, for the 100th time, you lost the popular vote by the biggest margin EVER.
"groveling" when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2017Donald Trump definitely did make fun of the reporter, there s even video evidence.
The sad part is, Donald Trump is going to be our president, but he still acts like a child, blasting his problems all over social media.
On some of his tweets, even his supporters call him out for continuing to bash on Hillary despite the fact he s already been elected.
He uses the social media site to make fun of people who don t support him, and Stephen King got sick of it and then continued to successfully destroy Trump at his own game:Trump's response to Meryl Streep childish, churlish, petulant is exactly why most Americans fear his presidency.
Emtoionally unqualified.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) January 9, 2017Stephen was 100% correct too, and 65 million Americans know it, but sadly he s still going to be our president.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images