It would appear Donald Trump not only wants to become President of the United States, but he wants to make a lot of money off of it as well, because of course he does.While speaking on the podcast The Takeaway, Vanity Fair contributing editor Sarah Ellison revealed that Trump refers to the electorate as an audience.
In fact, Ellison has been talking about this since June when it s been shown that Trump doesn t so much want to win the White House, but build a media empire, and grow an audience from his popularity in the election.According to Ellison s piece in Vanity Fair: Trump is indeed considering creating his own media business, built on the audience that has supported him thus far in his bid to become the next president of the United States.
According to several people briefed on the discussions, the presumptive Republican nominee is examining the opportunity presented by the audience currently supporting him.
Trump basically wants to create his own right-wing media empire.
Ellison added: He has also discussed the possibility of launching a mini-media conglomerate outside of his existing TV-production business, Trump Productions LLC.
He has, according to one of these people, enlisted the consultation of his daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who owns the The New York Observer.
Trump s rationale, according to this person, is that, win or lose, we are onto something here.
We ve triggered a base of the population that hasn t had a voice in a long time.
For his part, Kushner was heard at a New York dinner party saying that the people here don t understand what I m seeing.
You go to these arenas and people go crazy for him.'
And now, according to The Hill, Trump has been in talks with an NBC executive to continue on with The Apprentice from the White House if he were to win.
[NBCUniversal Chief Executive Steve Burke and Trump] outlined, presumably fantastically, that Trump should run for president; and on the off chance that he won, he would continue to star in The Apprentice from within the White House, Ellison wrote about a 2011 conversation between the two.
I don t know about you, but the only job the President of the United States should be worried about is being the President of the United States.
Add this to the reasons to make sure he doesn t win this November.Here s audio revealing Trump s intentions:Featured Photo by Sara D. Davis/Getty Images