Say what you want about the GOP but they really don t like half-measures.
In the span of just 4 years, they managed to not just alienate themselves from much of their base, they also managed to piss off the two fastest growing voter demographics in the country: Millennials and Latinos.According to polling done by the Pew Research Center, 30 percent of Latinos view Republicans favorably which is surprisingly high considering just how ugly Donald Trump has been.
But it s a little less surprising that the unfavorable percentage is at 61.
By comparison, the black community has a favorable/unfavorable opinion of 15 percent for and 78 percent against.Just to be clear, the black community has been crucial in several states to electing Democrats.
If, or more likely, when, the Latino vote reaches the same levels in terms of turnout and anti-Republican sentiment as the black community, states like Texas and Arizona will turn blue and stay that way.
On the other hand, Latinos view the Democratic Party 56 percent for and 36 percent against.
Expect those numbers to rise as more Latinos take office with a D next to their name.The picture is just as grim for Republicans among Millennials.
A whole whopping 35 percent have a favorable view of the GOP and 58 percent of them will pass, thank you very much.
The Millennials, in case you didn t notice, recently passed the Baby Boomers in size as the Boomers die off from old age.
Sure, they don t vote as often as the Boomers, but they will and soon.
That makes them the about-to-be most powerful bloc of voters and they re no fan of Republicans.You might have been thinking that Millennials obviously hate the Democrats just as much.
Buuuuuuut .you would be wrong.
In fact, of all the generations, Millennials are the only ones the Democrats are above water with: 52 percent favorable versus 41 percent unfavorable.
And since over the next 10-20 years, Millennials are going to be taking over the party that DOESN T spew nonstop racism, sexism and anti-gay bigotry, how do you suppose elections are going to go?
To the left or to the right?Dear Republicans: Game OverThe only way for the GOP to survive is to attract, Millennials, Latinos and the black community.
But the only way to do that is to reject the culture war nonsense that pushed all those groups away in the first place.
On top of that, they would also have to reject the constant attacks on the poor and sucking up to the rich.
That would drive away both parts of Republican base: The rich and the the terminally stupid.
In other words, either Republicans reject everything that the Republican Party has stood for for the last 60 years, or (not so) slowly wither away.What a lovely time to be a liberal.Oh, and just as an afterthought, in case you thought old white people would come to the rescue, they hate Republicans even MORE than Millennials.
Sorry!Man, that s GOTTA sting!Featured image via Monika Graff/Getty Images