Civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis just got support from someone Donald Trump fears most.After calling Trump illegitimate over the weekend, Lewis was attacked by Trump on Twitter on Sunday morning in yet another demonstration of how petty and thin-skinned Trump is.Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results.
All talk, talk, talk no action or results.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017That s right.
Trump literally called Lewis all talk and no action and bashed the city of Atlanta despite the fact that the city is not the hellscape Trump claims it to be.
In fact, the city hit back at Trump because Atlanta is a thriving city and the crown jewel of Georgia.It is also a fact that John Lewis tirelessly fought for civil rights and voting rights and marched with Martin Luther King.
He even suffered brutal beatings by police for peacefully protesting.Trump, meanwhile, was born with a silver spoon in his mouth and inherited his fortune from his wealthy daddy.
He never had to work a day in his life and he certainly never fought for anything or anyone but himself.Trump has drawn outrage across the nation over his attack, and Senator Elizabeth Warren fired back at Trump in defense of Lewis on Monday during the annual Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Breakfast in Boston.Warren slammed Trump for never putting his life at risk for anything and said Lewis has earned the right to criticize Trump and boycott the inauguration.
The president-elect stepped over a line when he attacked John Lewis as a man who is all talk and no action, Warren declared.
John Lewis is a man who literally put his life on the line to make this a better country, a fairer country, a country that is more open.
Donald Trump hasn t put his life on the line for anyone except Donald Trump.
John Lewis has earned the right to raise questions about legitimacy.
Right now, our intelligence community tells us that Russia directly interfered in the election here in the United States.
John Lewis has a question about that and if John Lewis wants not to attend because of that, that s certainly his right.
Here s the video via Twitter.Video: @SenWarren says @realDonaldTrump stepped over a line criticizing @repjohnlewis #mapoli pic.twitter.com/eu079Winf7 Gintautas Dumcius (@gintautasd) January 16, 2017Warren is right.
Lewis literally bled for this country while Trump dodged the draft during the Vietnam War because he cares nothing about this country.
The only reason he ran for president was so he could enrich himself and his family.
It s definitely not about helping the American people, or else he would not be cheering about millions of Americans being stripped of their health care.
Lewis, on the other hand, has fought for bettering the lives of all Americans for decades and he deserves respect for that and an apology from Trump.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images