One of the most controversial figures in the upcoming Trump administration (and this is out of a circus freak show of racist white men and corporate oligarchs) is General Michael T. Flynn, who s been slated to serve as Trump s national security adviser.
Flynn, it seems, shared classified information.Flynn, like Donald Trump, seems to have an itchy trigger finger when it comes to computers.
Last month, Flynn retweeted a fake news link that accused Hillary Clinton of engaging money laundering and sex crimes out of a D.C. pizza joint.
Of course, this later became known as Pizzagate, and even prompted an armed gunman to storm the pizza place, but it s a Trump world now, so that s all normal, right?Image via Wayback MachineJust four years ago, Flynn presented his staff with a how to dress for success presentation that advised both men and women how to dress.
It s as bad as you d imagine.
While he encourages men to dress to exhibit authority, the women have much different criteria.
Women are to dress to look attractive, but not too attractive.
Not gaudy but not plain.
Women need to wear makeup, but not too much makeup.
They should accentuate the positive/disguise the negative.
The most serious of Flynn s foibles, though, is a revelation that he shared classified information with foreign military officers in Afghanistan.
The investigation took place in 2010, and it was determined that while he did inappropriately share classified information, there was no actual or potential damage to national security.
We don t have the details, because, well, they were classified, but for a national security adviser, this is more than troubling.Hillary Clinton was defeated in part because Trump and Republicans made an email scandal that wasn t into a national security issue.
Trump, amidst cries of drain the swamp, intermingled with lock her up, promised a scandal-free presidency.
Instead, we are getting far worse than more of the same.
Flynn should be disqualified, today.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images.