Donald Trump is probably one of the most hateful presidential candidates this country has ever seen.
But what makes him so unique is that he is not just a vile piece of trash, he is a vile piece of trash who millions of people are in love with.
These Trump fanboys and fangirls make his rallies very dangerous for people whom they have deemed unloyal especially minorities.Jacki Schechner recently described what a former colleague told her about their scary experience at a Louisiana Trump rally, in a Facebook post:Friends, this is important.
A former colleague and friend of mine was on assignment at Trump s rally in Louisiana today.
She posted the following account of what happened.
I know and trust her implicitly.
If she says it was frightening, I believe her.
That s the first time in my career I ve felt like press badges weren t given to grant access, but as an identifying, isolating mark.
What you ve seen on TV is nothing compared to the real thing.
Some 30 people were thrown out, with the mob pointing them out and cheering, the candidate yelling, Get them outta here!
And, Louisiana, I m disappointed in this behavior.
Why is it taking so long to remove these people?
The question of who s going to pay for the wall?
was met with a LOUD, gleeful response of, MEXICO!
And then calling out the press (in their designated pen), saying they re the most dishonest people in the world.
A chorus of boos followed.I had no idea how upsetting this assignment would be.
And I am less concerned about the one man than I am the masses who support him.
This rally that she spoke of was in New Orleans and tons of people were thrown out.
Other news outlets described Trump as becoming increasingly irate when he was interrupted and NBC News reporter, Ali Vitali, called it the most intense rally she d been to.Tonight was the most intense rally I ve witnessed so far on the trail.
This is just a clip: pic.twitter.com/SKE5TOQqz9 Ali Vitali (@alivitali) March 5, 2016His rallies are not just frightening because of his supporters propensity for violence, they are scary because we are given a glimpse into an embarrassing portion of our citizenry.
Trump s crowds are huge and most of the people at the rallies wholeheardely support his viewpoints.
I have been to one of them and his fans are some of the most ignorant, hateful, nasty Americans I ve ever run across.
They hurl insults when you are doing nothing but standing there.
It is like watching an army of zombies whose one goal is to destory everything this country was founded on.What s worse is that these people will continue to support him even in the face of mounting evidence that he is a pathological lying, narcassitic asshat and that is terrifying.Featured image via Flickr