While Republicans seem to be content in keeping a blind eye and sitting on their hands regarding the seemingly extremely obvious violations occurring surrounding Donald Trump, one Democrat is finally stepping up and getting to work on making sure Trump s properly investigated.According to the House website for Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY): Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced a Resolution of Inquiry directing the Department of Justice to provide the House of Representatives with any and all information relevant to an inquiry into President Trump and his associates conflicts of interest, ethical violations including the Emoluments Clause and Russia ties.
If the House Judiciary Committee does not schedule the resolution for a Markup within 14 legislative days, it becomes a privileged resolution and can be brought to the floor in front of the full House for a vote.
According to Nadler: Democrats have repeatedly asked the Majority, in letters to Chairman Goodlatte and Speaker Ryan, to investigate these ongoing conflicts of interest, and those requests have been ignored.
Adding: Donald Trump has refused to step away from his business interests in any meaningful way, his foreign entanglements are likely unconstitutional, he has repeatedly refused to disclose his financial assets, and he is clouded by the specter of Russian intervention in the election and his Administration.
Republicans have shown zero willingness to follow through on their duty to conduct oversight, and they must be held accountable if they are truly willing to abdicate this constitutional obligation and must be made to answer to the American people for that failure.
We must know what the Department has learned about the Administration s connections to the Russian government.
We must review the Department s legal analysis if there is any of the President s feeble attempt to remedy his wide-ranging ethics problems.
We must conduct oversight of the least transparent Administration in modern history.
This resolution represents a start.
This resolution is definitely a step towards impeachment in the eyes of many.
If Trump were to be found in violation of any of the things in question, it can and should be subject to further scrutiny and investigation, subsequently leading towards an impeachable offense(s).This is definitely a step in the proper direction.
Kudos to Rep. Nadler for getting the ball rolling.Read more:Featured Photo by Chris Kleponis-Pool/Getty Images