Unless you ve been living under a rock for the past few days, you now know that our idiot wannabe president just used military resources and spent god knows how many millions of taxpayer dollars just to put on a little show in Syria that, instead of making him look good, embarrassed America and pissed off most of the world.
It might even have pissed off Russia, though we re still of the belief that Putin was in on this whole scheme.Before Trump fake-attacked Syria late Thursday night, he warned his BFF Putin, who in turn, warned his allies in Syria, who then evacuated the base and surrounding areas.
Sadly, 16 innocent civilians were killed in this needless, unforgivable display.
Among them, women and children from a local village.
The SAME women and children that he stood at his podium Thursday, chest puffed out, promising to protect.
Sorry, asshole your little publicity stunt backfired and you will have to answer for that one day the sooner the better.What makes this whole f*cked up situation even more disgusting is that journalists all over have been ignoring the obvious Trump did this as a distraction from investigations into his collusion with Russia and to gain support to boost his record low poll numbers and they are actually praising him for this act!
One of these journalists, shockingly, was CNN host Fareed Zakaria who went on CNN s New Day and said the unthinkable: I think Donald Trump became president of the United States last night.
I think this was actually a big moment.
After watching his fellow journalists essentially roll over and cave to whatever mystical powers Trump seems to have over the people who support him, one famed and beloved journalist wasn t having it.
Dan Rather took to Facebook Friday with a scathing post that ripped those journalists, and especially Donald Trump, to shreds.
To Trump, he had this to say:The President of the United States is the Commander in Chief.
It is an awesome responsibility.
Committing the use of force and American men and women in uniform is about as serious as it gets.
But the truly great presidents understand that knowing when NOT to act is as important as knowing when to act.It is a whole lot easier starting wars than finishing them.
And there are many historical examples of where a promise of limited engagement quickly metastasized into something much bigger.There is a tendency to rally around the flag, and a president who takes on a war footing can see a boost of support.
It is often transitory.
There are arguments to be made that President Assad in Syria has crossed a line that demands U.S. military interference.
Whether this should have been a unilateral action is something we all must consider.
Whether President Trump has a plan for what comes next must be debated.
Whether there is a coherence to this missile strike fitting into a larger foreign policy strategy is a question that should give us all pause.He goes on to slay the media and puts them in their place, reminding them that it is their job to ask hard questions.
Rather says:There is ample evidence that this Administration needs to face deep scrutiny.
The lies we have heard, the chaos in governance, and the looming questions about ties with Russia itself a major player in Syria demand that the press treat this latest action with healthy skepticism.He concludes his post with a dire warning that we should all pay very close attention to:The number of members of the press who have lauded the actions last night as presidential is concerning.
War must never be considered a public relations operation.
It is not a way for an administration to gain a narrative.
It is a step into a dangerous unknown and its full impact is impossible to predict, especially in the immediate wake of the first strike.What will happen next remains unknown, but one thing is for certain we can t forget our principles and cave to this monster, no matter how bright and shiny he makes the future sound.
He s a liar, a sexual predator, most likely a criminal, and he s most certainly a con artist whose only real public experience was having a reality television show with a famous tagline.
That is all he is.
Don t forget that.But, we should always keep hope alive that one day soon we will get to say to him, You re FIRED!
That will be a glorious day!You can read Dan Rather s heartfelt post in its entirety here.Featured image via Getty/Kirk Irwin