Yada, yada, yada Hillary Clinton announced her 2016 presidential bid in a two-minute video that she uploaded to YouTube.
Is everyone else as 100% FED Up!
with the Hillary 2016 push from the main stream media?
Yep, I thought so BUT THIS IS AWESOME AND YOU SHOULD PARTICIPATE ON TWITTER: Within minutes of her announcement, Twitter blew up with the following hashtag: #WhyImNotVotingForHillary.
It quickly became the number one trending hashtag.In honor of this awesome hashtag, here is a list of some of the best reasons why Americans are choosing to NOT vote for Hillary Clinton: America should not be run by crooks.
She hasn t cared about the Middle Class in 70 years.
She s starting now????
I support women!
That includes the unborn in the womb.
I won t support anyone that supports Planned Parenthood.
When terrorists murdered a US ambassador and 3 other Americans, her response was, What difference does it make?
She takes money from countries that execute homosexuals and oppress women.
She couldn t satisfy her husband how is she going to satisfy a whole country?
Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods, and Glen Doherty.
Because she s morally bankrupt!
Judge Jeanine: Hillary Clinton is only out for herself.
She is the poster child for what s wrong with our government.
She is a criminal.
She is a liar.
She has accomplished nothing.
I don t believe in socialism.
The left believes in the supremacy of govt over the individual.
Do you want tyranny or liberty?
I don t believe in political dynasties.
Because God must be ignored to adopt her Ends Justifies the Means ideology.
She is Bill and Obama but without the charm.
Enough is too much already.
Corruption, incompetence, dishonesty, elitism just a few reasons.
As a Hispanic, black woman I feel insulted by Dems who feel my needs are only abortion, immigration and racism.
Because her greatest accomplishment has been accomplishing nothing worthy of our votes.
I ve taken European History.
I know the dangers of a socialist leader.
Because she s worse than Caligula.
Worse than the Oakland Raiders.
Worse than Obamacare.
Almost as bad as cancer.
Boo yah!Please feel free to join in on the trend and issue your own #WhyImNotVotingForHillary tweet!Via: Down Trend