The Republican healthcare plan is a travesty and the numbers don t lie.
Sen. Orrin Hatch does, though.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) tweeted on Thursday, Let us be clear and this is not trying to be overly dramatic: Thousands of people will die if the Republican health care bill becomes law.
Sanders is correct but he s being stingy with his numbers.
Actually, tens of thousands of our country s neediest will die if Trumpcare becomes law and all because Republicans want to gift the wealthy with a tax cut.Let us be clear and this is not trying to be overly dramatic: Thousands of people will die if the Republican health care bill becomes law.
Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) June 23, 2017Medicaid saves lives and that s a fact that Hatch refuses to acknowledge.
The Utah Senator responded to Sanders accurate tweet, saying, The brief time when we were *not* accusing those we disagree with of murder was nice while it lasted.
The brief time when we were *not* accusing those we disagree with of murder was nice while it lasted.
https://t.co/qr1rzon1cg Senator Hatch Office (@senorrinhatch) June 23, 2017When was that brief time, Orrin?
Was it when Sarah Palin called Obamacare the death panels then when the Affordable Care Act became law, lives were saved.
Trumpcare assures death to thousands of vulnerable Americans.Twitter users reacted swiftly to Hatch s tweet.Well you could stop trying to actively murder us while you line your pockets.
Just see how that works out for public discourse.
Dennis Perkins (@DennisPerkins5) June 24, 2017it is an unavoidable fact that people are going to die if this bill passes you useless cynical octogenarian piece of shit joe mande (@JoeMande) June 24, 2017 in this house we declare orrin hatch is a murderer David Kaib (@DavidKaib) June 24, 2017can we accuse you of trying to bankrupt people, then?
Because that is also true Greg Olear (@gregolear) June 24, 2017Have you guys considered not trying to pass laws that will kill people?
Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) June 24, 2017hey man.
fellow verified account here.
i can cuss at you without being banned so here goes: you are a crap person, mister!
Virgil Texas (@virgiltexas) June 24, 2017But if thousands will die as a result, what do you call it, Senator?
"A good tax cut?"
HarleyPeyton (@HarleyPeyton) June 24, 2017Death panels, anyone?
Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) June 24, 2017Stop trying to kill people then dickhead dan (@dannolan) June 24, 2017Stop trying to murder poor people Steve Schreiber (@sschreiber13) June 24, 2017fuck you.
im putting you in the toilet you old bitch.
fuck you jesse farrar (@BronzeHammer) June 24, 2017Vote no on the murder bill, Senator David Greenwald (@davidegreenwald) June 24, 2017Hey quick question who came up with "death panels" Victoria McNally (@vqnerdballs) June 24, 2017How rude of us to point out the fact that Trumpcare will kill thousands of us and wreck countless other lives.
We must mind our manners.
Lawrence Glickman (@LarryGlickman) June 24, 2017Well, we mustn't make our precious senators feel sad.
That would be the greatest crime of all, apparently.
Kevin Gannon (@TheTattooedProf) June 24, 2017You're a fucking murderer dude.
Make peace with it.
Prolific Jezzer ?
(@leducviolet) June 24, 2017Healthcare is literally life and death.
Life and death language utterly applies.
Matt Debenham (@debenham) June 24, 2017You're a repulsive liar who cares about nothing but money.
Fuck you for hurting the American people, you soulless fucking monster.
beth ???
(@bourgeoisalien) June 24, 2017how can you stand being you 2ND AMENDMENT MUSLIM (@2dAmMuslim) June 24, 2017Obamacare is not perfect but Republicans insisted on a watered-down version before it passed and now we re left with a healthcare system that needs to be fixed but not eradicated.
Some conservatives think that the GOP health care plan isn t cruel enough.
We disagree with conservatives.
This proposal to repeal Obamacare is cruel enough already.
If it becomes law, it will destroy families, financially and emotionally.
Sanders never mentioned the word murder in his tweet so we suspect that Hatch has a guilty conscience.As former Vice-President Joe Biden put it, Slashing Medicaid hurts kids, the elderly, people with disabilities and those struggling with addiction.
All for tax breaks for the wealthy.
Hatch already knows this.
The opioid crisis is sweeping across the U.S. and Republicans want to target a program which would help some drug addicts eventually become useful citizens in this country.
By the way, the Senator s state ranks 4th in overdose deaths.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images.