Absolutely everything about the story of Brock Turner, the convicted Stanford swim team rapist, is gag-worthy.
He received a particularly light sentence (more on that in a bit), his father thought he shouldn t have had any sentence because it was just 20 minutes of action.
Now, a friend of Turner has spoken and her (yes her) attitude is that we are being way too politically correct because well, he s in college, or something like that.Apparently, according to Turner s childhood friend, Leslie Rasmussen, a rapist isn t really a rapist when it happens on a college campus: I don t think it s fair to base the fate of the next ten + years of his life on the decision of a girl who doesn t remember anything but the amount she drank to press charges against him.
I am not blaming her directly for this, because that isn t right.
But where do we draw the line and stop worrying about being politically correct every second of the day and see that rape on campuses isn t always because people are rapists.
Then, the obligatory victim blaming: This is completely different from a woman getting kidnapped and raped as she is walking to her car in a parking lot.
That is a rapist.
These are not rapists.
These are idiot boys and girls having too much to drink and not being aware of their surroundings and having clouded judgement.
No, this was not a case of two drunk kids taking things a little too far.
This was a violent sexual assault.
Here s just some of it, as retold by the victim:He said he had asked if I wanted to dance.
Apparently I said yes.
He d asked if I wanted to go to his dorm, I said yes.
Then he asked if he could finger me and I said yes.
Most guys don t ask, can I finger you?
Usually there s a natural progression of things, unfolding consensually, not a Q and A.
But apparently I granted full permission.
He s in the clear.
Even in his story, I only said a total of three words, yes yes yes, before he had me half naked on the ground.
Future reference, if you are confused about whether a girl can consent, see if she can speak an entire sentence.
You couldn t even do that.
Just one coherent string of words.
Where was the confusion?
This is common sense, human decency.According to him, the only reason we were on the ground was because I fell down.
Note; if a girl falls down help her get back up.
If she is too drunk to even walk and falls down, do not mount her, hump her, take off her underwear, and insert your hand inside her vagina.
If a girl falls down help her up.
If she is wearing a cardigan over her dress don t take it off so that you can touch her breasts.
Maybe she is cold, maybe that s why she wore the cardigan.Clearly, calling Turner a rapist isn t political correctness.
It s simply a fact.
Brock was convicted of three felony counts.
While the maximum sentence for his offenses might have been 10 years, he will likely only serve three months.
As horrendously unjust as that sentence is, it s still about three months longer than 97 percent of rapists serve.
That s political incorrectness if I ve ever heard it.Featured image via video screen grab.