Yesterday, Republican presidential front runner Donald Trump got an unexpected question from a voter during a New Hampshire town hall on CNN.The man confronting Trump was Joseph Manzoli, who described himself as a father with three daughters.
Manzoli asked Trump what every self-respecting parent in America should be asking themselves: what kind of role model would the next president be for my children?
Manzoli asked: I have three wonderful daughters at home.
And I want nothing more for them than to look as their president as a role model.
Throughout the course of this campaign, you ve said some disparaging comments about women, about people from other countries, other religions, and about everybody who s disagreed with you.
Explain to me how I can look at my daughters and have them look up to President Trump as a role model.
You can see how Trump answered below:Trump joked and asked if CNN had put Manzoli up to asking such a question before trying to convince his audience that he had loads of respect for women and had employed a staggering number of female executives.
He said: Nobody has more respect for women than I do.
Thirty years ago, I had a woman building a major, major construction job in New York City.
And that never happens.
That just didn t happen.
I have so many women executives.
I have been great to women.
And women have been great to me.
They ve done a great job.
Trump clearly forgot to mention his infamous long-standing, one-sided feud with Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly, his appalling comments about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, as well as his long history of misogynistic behavior toward women.
He also failed to tell this concerned father that sexism is just as alive in the background of his campaign as it is in his interviews and speeches!
According to a former staffer, Trump s only paying his female staffers HALF of what his male employees are making for the same job.
What a role model!Trump was just as insincere when he addressed his own comments about minorities like immigrants and Muslims.
In defending the extremely racist and offensive things he s said about immigrants, Trump answered: I do bring up things that people don t want to bring up.
I talk about immigration stronger than anybody else.
I talk about building a wall.
If you look at New Hampshire, you have a tremendous heroin problem.
It s coming from the border!
And then he had the nerve to claim that tons of people were agreeing with his proposal to ban all Muslims from coming in the United States.
When I brought up the Muslim problem.
You know, it s very interesting.
I brought that problem up and all of a sudden, the world started going wild.
And now the world is agreeing with me.
We have to do something.
There is a serious problem.
If Trump is going to be the next role model for our younger generations, America is in deep trouble.
Featured image from video screenshot