The rumors that Hillary Clinton is sick have been flying around the right as conservatives desperately search for any way possible to take her down and elevate the disaster that is Donald Trump.
Even Katrina Pierson tried to claim that Hillary has a rare brain disease with no evidence whatsoever.
These not-so lovely people point to videos of her coughing and appearing to have a seizure, criticize her for getting helped up some stairs, and even claim that her glasses are evidence that she s gravely ill.Rudy Giuliani, who s increasingly extreme and will do anything to remain endeared to Donald Trump, earned a lot of flak for claiming that Hillary Clinton is sick, too, without a any evidence other than online videos.
The Washington Post decided to hit Giuliani back on that with an op-ed titled, Is Rudy Giuliani Okay?
The first three paragraphs of the op-ed are both scathing and sarcastic, and perfect for what Giuliani has done: During his 15-minute speech at the GOP convention last month in Cleveland, it was notable that when he said Donald Trump loves all people, from the top to the bottom, Mr. Giuliani animatedly gestured toward his knees as he said top, and above his head as he said bottom.
Also, why did he say that he and his wife, Judith, have been friends with Mr. Trump for 30 years, though he met his wife in 1999, only 17 years ago?Also we re noting this purely out of concern during his speech he often licked his lips, indicating dry mouth, which, according to the Mayo Clinic, can be a symptom of nerve damage, stroke or Alzheimer s disease.
At the end of his address, beads of sweat were visible on his pate did that not suggest heart disease?Mr.
Giuliani is just 72, but he seemed slightly stooped as he walked to the lectern, where his wide stance made us wonder if he s unsteady on his feet.
Then there was his slurred diction, as when he referred to jushtified police shootings and Syrian refyoongees.
More evidence of a stroke?
Come to think of it, Giuliani did look a bit decrepit at the convention, didn t he?See how he can t seem to stand up straight?
(Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) And what is up with that squint?
Did he have a a stroke that affected his vision?
(Photo by John Moore/Getty Images)We can make ludicrous claims like Giuliani, too.The Post wanted to give Giuliani and the rest of the right wing a taste of what it s like for people who aren t doctors of any sort, let alone their doctors, tell the world that they re obviously ill.
The truth, however, is that we actually have less cause to question Hillary s health than The Donald s, because Hillary has had a real medical exam and released it.Trump, however, has not.
The record he released was a complete sham (like literally everything else he s done), his doctor is a quack at best, and, like his taxes, he won t release his actual health records.
So how are we to know how healthy he really is, despite his quack s assertions that he d be the healthiest president ever?Of course, the Post acknowledges that their assessment of Giuliani s health is ridiculous, as they should and as we did above.
Their goal was to put the entire Ermagherd Herllery ers serck crowd on the right in their place, and they did an outstanding job of it.So how does it feel to have someone who is not your doctor, or a doctor of any kind, diagnosing you with health problems based solely on how you appeared on television, Mr. Giuliani?Featured image by Jeff Swensen/Getty Images