Marco Rubio is making a name for himself in the Republican Party.
Some think (actually most) that he s the GOP s best chance to defeat the Democrats in a general election.
He s young, he s Hispanic, he s from an important swing state like Florida, and he s not as crazy as Donald Trump (at least by appearance).But, what most people don t know, is that Rubio s views on abortion make him an absolute nightmare of a candidate.
And, people within his own party even are calling him out on it.
During Saturday night s Republican debate Senator Rubio made the craziest accusation against Hillary Clinton on abortion yet.
He levied the charge that Hillary supports aborting babies on their due date.
When Hillary was asked on Face The Nation what she thought of the comment, here was how she described it, among other words: Pathetic.
That s one way to describe Rubio, for sure.We can t say these kinds of attacks are not typical of Republicans, cause then we d be lying.
Hillary wasn t even surprised in the least and didn t even flinch when offering her rebuttal.
Here was her full response: I think it s pretty pathetic.
This is something that illustrates how Senator Rubio is going as far as he can to try and buttress his credentials within certain parts of the Republican constituency.
I ve been on record for years of where I stand on making abortion safe and legal, the exceptions that are appropriate that should be looked into, and the very difficult choices that very few women have to confront that lead to very excruciating kinds of decisions.
And, to begin to politicize this so early in the campaign season to try and raise false charges and look like he s going to try and make sure Roe v. Wade is overturned and Planned Parenthood is defunded is just a tried and true tactic by those on the right.
Clinton followed this up by pointing out that Rubio should probably brush up on the law first before bringing this up again in the future.Senator Rubio may very well be the GOP s best chance to go up against the Democrats, but with comments like those in a debate, you can be sure Clinton will be ready to shut him down again if she has to.
We rate her description of Rubio as pathetic to be accurate and right on the money.
Featured image via screen capture.