Thursday night saw the three remaining candidates for the GOP 2016 presidential nomination trying to woo high rolling donors at a swanky $1,000 per plate dinner at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Manhattan.
This particular endeavor did not go well for creepy Texas Senator Ted Cruz.
In fact, it was downright humiliating for him.You see, it seems that Cruz s New York values comment from the GOP debate when he was trying to slam Donald Trump has come back to bite him in the ass.
While many people many have let the comment go, as it happened quite a few debates ago, Trump made sure that the New Yorkers at the dinner remember it clear as a bell.
Trump, who spoke first, reminded the crowd, as he shamelessly used 9/11 to bolster the donors pride in their city, as well as to slam Cruz: In our darkest moments as a city, we showed the world the very, very best in terms of bravery, heart and soul of America.
These are the values we need to make America great again to bring America together again to heal America s wounds.
To his detriment, Cruz was the last candidate to go on stage, and social media site Twitter lit up with photos and videos of the appalling lack of attention people were paying while he was speaking.
There were people chatting, walking around, playing on their cell phones, and doing everything but listen to Cruz speak.
Buzzfeed reporter Rosie Gray, who was at the event, tweeted: It s legitimately loud in here with people talking and eating and ignoring Cruz while he speaks.
The Daily Beast s Olivia Nuzzi tweeted, It s sort of painful to watch someone speak passionately to a crowd who wouldn t even notice if he killed himself onstage, with a picture of an attendee paying no attention to Cruz and surfing the web on his phone.
Nuzzi went on to say, Nobody cares.
The Washington Post s Philip Rucker tweeted: Reaction at #nygop dinner to Cruz is embarrassing for both Cruz and the guests.
Folks walking around, chatting w/ each other as he speaks.
Here are shots of those tweets, complete with video:Reaction at #nygop dinner to Cruz is embarrassing for both Cruz and the guests.
Folks walking around, chatting w/ each other as he speaks.
Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) April 15, 2016@Olivianuzzi @BLUIZK81 A journalist should never use "sort of" ever.
What "sort of" painful is it?
Kinda?
Itty-bitty?
a lotta?
Slang is lazy Tom Lynch (@yzest5121) April 15, 2016Cruz is speaking in the background.
Nobody cares.
pic.twitter.com/8wLpAkrV23 Olivia Nuzzi (@Olivianuzzi) April 15, 2016it's legitimately loud in here with people talking and eating and ignoring Cruz while he speaks Rosie Gray (@RosieGray) April 15, 2016 The scene as Cruz speaks at NYC GOP Gala pic.twitter.com/Pwx8I0Ci25 Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) April 15, 2016To get an idea of how hard it is to hear Cruz at this NY GOP dinner pic.twitter.com/0r7XckAXmB Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) April 15, 2016Let it suffice to say that it looks like Ted Cruz can give up any hope he might have had of winning the New York GOP primary.
Seriously, this is proof that nobody cares about him.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images