When Donald Trump was campaigning he said something chilling, something that was widely dismissed as all bluster : that to deal with terrorism, you have to slaughter their families.
The other thing with the terrorists is you have to take out their families, when you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families.
They care about their lives, don t kid yourself.
When they say they don t care about their lives, you have to take out their families, Trump told Fox and Friends as he promised he would not fight a very politically correct war.
In his very first raid as President, he showed the world that he meant it.
The operation was approved over dinner without adequate planning or intelligence (in any sense), and it was a disaster from the very beginning.According to reports from locals, the first person hit was 11-year-old Ahmed Abdelilah Ahmed al Dahab, who heard commotion outside and went to check what was happening.
When my son Ahmed saw them, he couldn t tell that they were soldiers because it was dark, the boy s father says.
He asked them Who are you?
but the men shot him.
He was the first killed.
No one thought that marines would descend on our homes to kill us, kill our children and kill our women.
Another member of his family, 12-year-old Nasser, was killed.One woman, Fatim Saleh al Ameri, was shot while trying to flee with her two-year-old son.
We pulled him out from his mother s lap.
He was covered in her blood, said 11-year-old Basil Ahmed Abad al Zouba, whose 17-year-old brother was killed in Trump s Folly.Abdallah al Ameri, who had years earlier survived a U.S. attack on his wedding party of which he was not the target, was killed along with his 25-year-old daughter Fatima and 38-year-old son Mohammed.
Three of Mohammed s children 4-year-old Aisha, 7-year-old Khadija, and 5-year-old Hussein.
Another nine members of his family were killed in the raid, including 5-year-old Halima and 6-year-old Mursil.
I was woken up after midnight by the bombing of the helicopters.
There were soldiers on the ground shooting at us.
They started shooting at us with machine gun fire, witness Fahad Ali al Ameri says of the attack.
His three-month-old daughter Asma Fahad Ali al Ameri was killed in her crib, asleep.Also killed was the eight-year-old daughter of an al Qaeda propagandist, American citizen Nawar Anwar Al-Awlaqi, who was hiding in a building at the time.
Some of the gunfire went through the windows and Nawar was injured in her neck, her uncle, whom she was visiting, says.
.
We tried to save her but we couldn t do anything for her.
It is true they were targeting al Qaeda but why did they have to kill children and women and elderly people?
said Zabnallah Saif al Ameri, If such slaughter happened in their country, there would be a lot of shouting about human rights.
When our children are killed, they are quiet.
Trump s raid failed to kill the primary target, Qassim al-Rimi, who is currently taunting Easy D in propaganda videos, but did manage to snag three super-important videos that are about a decade old and available on YouTube.
The tradeoff for this disaster was about 14 dead militants and 30 noncombatants as well as a member of SEAL Team 6.Because of this disaster, Yemen has withdrawn permission for the United States to conduct anti-terror operations in the country, thus damaging our ability to combat extremism.Naturally, Trump called this massive boner a success.
Featured image via The Bureau