It seems Donald Trump s cruelty knows no bounds, especially after his latest campaign rally.During a rally in the middle of a very cold winter night in Vermont, Trump ordered security to throw a Bernie Sanders supporter out of the building without his coat.Several Sanders supporters gained entrance into the Burlington rally at the Flynn Center throughout the evening in order to heckle and interrupt the Republican presidential wannabe.Of course, the Sanders fans managed to annoy Trump to the point where his campaign team actually began to screen people to make sure they were Trump fans.
Considering how Trump has treated protesters and hecklers during previous rallies, it was only a matter of time before he treated them heartlessly.At one point in particular, Trump directed attention toward one man and ordered security to escort him out.
This normally would not be unusual since hecklers and protesters are escorted out of rallies all the time, but in this instance, Trump noted the extremely cold temperature outside and told security to throw the man out into the freezing air without his coat.
I thought I heard a little voice over there.
Get him outta there!
Don t give him his coat.
Keep his coat.
Confiscate his coat.
You know it s about ten degrees below zero outside.
No, you can keep his coat.
Tell him we ll send it to him in a couple of weeks.
And Trump s supporters cheered the cruelty as the man was parted from his coat and forced to go without it during a freezing night in Vermont.Here s the video via YouTube.Trump went on to acknowledge that he expected some Sanders supporters to interrupt his rally since he was in Vermont, Sanders home state.Sanders and Trump have engaged each other recently through media and social media, the most notable of which occurred when Sanders criticized Trump for not supporting wage increases for workers during an interview on CBS.
The very next day, Trump flip-flopped on the minimum wage, posting on Twitter that it s bad that workers haven t received much of a raise in years.Featured image via Flickr