Is there a more corrupt and power hungry group of people anywhere in the United States?
Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and the entire DNC are the reason for Donald Trump s meteoric rise to the White House after never running for a political office in his lifetime.
When the Democrats complain about Donald Trump, they only need to find a mirror, to help them understand why he is so wildly popular with Americans who are sick and tired of the Washington cesspool Donna Brazile says in her new book the Democratic National Committee (DNC) went against professional advice and sat idly for a month while Russians stole data because primaries were still underway in a number of states.In May, when CrowdStrike recommended that we take down our system and rebuild it, the DNC told them to wait a month, because the state primaries for the presidential election were still underway, and the party and the staff needed to be at their computers to manage these efforts, Brazile wrote in her new book, Hacks.
For a whole month, CrowdStrike watched Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear operating.
Cozy Bear was the hacking force that had been in the DNC system for nearly a year.
Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear are cybersecurity firms that have reported ties with Russian hackers.
Both groups are blamed for the hacks on the DNC in 2016.
CrowdStrike is a private U.S. cybersecurity firm that oversaw the protection of the DNC s servers.The DNC was under the leadership of Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida in May 2016 the time Brazile is describing in the passage.
Shultz resigned in July, notably, over a series of leaked emails that showed DNC officials colluding to undermine Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont s campaign.Brazile s comments, if true, show that the DNC s privately contracted cybersecurity firm advised the Wasserman Schultz -led committee to break down and rebuild its cyber operation to protect against alleged threats.
The DNC chose to go against the advice in order to see the Democratic primaries play out, which ended with Clinton becoming the Democrats nominee.For entire story: Daily Caller