The legendary newsman appeared on MSNBC to slam the media for not holding Donald Trump accountable for what he says and does, but also had time to laugh at Sarah Palin.As a guest on Morning Joe on Monday, Tom Brokaw criticized the media for not doing their jobs when it comes to Donald Trump, whose violent and hateful rhetoric has helped him become the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
In the course of the campaign, [Trump has] said some things that were just blatantly not true.
He s never been held accountable for it, so many of them, and the things that he s said.
Having said all of that, he did touch a big nerve out there and he ran a campaign that no one at this table or in the political world expected him to do as well as he has.
But all factors in life are about how do you adjust to the reality of where you are next, how you re going to deal with the next phase of this.
And we re now in the next phase.
And if he keeps punching out the people in his own party in the way that he has, I don t see how that s going to help him.
I just don t. But earlier on in his remarks, Brokaw talked about how Donald Trump has been treating House Speaker Paul Ryan and mentioned how Sarah Palin declared that Ryan s career will be over if he doesn t support Trump.
Brokaw s mentioning of Palin immediately drew laughter from Joe Scarborough, who made a hilarious observation of his own that caused the rest of the panel to laugh as well.BROKAW: For him to just punch out Paul Ryan the way that he has.
To have Sarah Palin to be saying that Paul Ryan has no career now, that it s over for him SCARBOROUGH: Says someone who has no career now.
Here s the video via Media Matters.Sarah Palin just got burned by Joe Scarborough and Tom Brokaw and it was hilarious because what they said is true.Indeed, Sarah Palin has no career of her own.
The closest she came was as governor of Alaska before she quit halfway into her term.
Ever since then, she has become a professional grifter who swindles gullible supporters out of money in any way she can, including jumping on the Trump bandwagon to get more attention.
Make no mistake, Sarah Palin is a joke and people should laugh at her.Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images