Ann Coulter, throughout her seemingly long career, has managed to offend just above every group that is not white, male or Christian (or American), although the last one is arguable.
She hates African-Americans, Muslims, women, Hispanics, Latinos, Jews, Catholics, immigrants, atheists, scientists, veterans, the LGBT community, and just about everyone else.
But the other day, Coulter managed to offend another group of Americans: Asians.Appearing on MSNBC s Hardball with Chris Matthews with Joy Ann Reid, the self-described Mean spirited, bigoted conservative struck again when she referred to Asian Americans supporting Donald Trump as Mandarins.
And in true Coulter fashion, she insisted that it was the correct term even after being told that is was in fact not.Here s how the exchange went:ANN: You have Mandarin Chinese people with signs for Trump, Make America Great Again, written in Mandarin whether they are Hispanic or Mandarin, the ones inside the stadium are Americans and think of themselves as Americans and want the laws enforced As I said before they have Mandarins in the audience and Hispanics in the audience.
JOY: What does Mandarin mean?
You mean Asian American.
They re called Asian Americans, Ann, not Mandarins.
ANN: It has nothing to do with demographics.
JOY: It s throwback language, it s not 1913.
They are called Asian Americans.
ANN: Anyways, as I was saying, it has nothing to do with demographics.
It has to do with if you re here legally or illegally, whether you consider yourself American, whether the laws on the books are going to be enforced.
We have an invasion of people who are - JOY: If your default when discussing Asian Americans is to call them Mandarins, we are not bringing back archaic language here, Ann.
Just talk about people as Americans Asian Americans.
ANN: No, you are not going to police my language.
They are Mandarins, it is written in Mandarin.
And there it is the big bad liberal is policing the poor, innocent conservative like a big old bully.
Those damn liberals, not wanting to be grossly offensive and racist!
How dare they!Now some people may not wholly object to this term.
But for starters, it s always important to remember that not all Asians are Mandarins, also known as Chinese.
When one blanket terms an entire race of people, they dismissing the importance of other cultures, ethnicities, and people of different origin, which is in itself racist.
Coulter chose to brush off the importance of these people just because they are Asian (not white), by referring to them with a slur.Second, the term Mandarin was used to describe the public officials of China s imperial government, a government that has not been in place since 1912.
So Coulter referring to these supposed Trump supporters as Mandarins shows just how stupid she really is, and that she really doesn t care about non-white people or their history.But then again, do any Trump supporters?Watch Ann make a fool of herself (yet again):Featured image via Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images