There have been many reactions to the horrific shooting at a Republican baseball game this week, but the one that was just given by Congressman Mark Sanford (R-SC) is one of the most shocking.While many Republicans have been quick to blame Democrats and Liberals for the shooter s actions, Sanford went on Morning Joe today to point the finger at America s president, Donald Trump.
Sounding like a Republican who might actually have a tiny grip on reality, Sanford argued that Trump helped create a toxic political environment, which may have motivated yesterday s attack.
Sanford said: I think we have to watch out as a society because, if we don t watch out, civility is indeed a part of civilized government and an open political system.
If you let these forces play out, I think we end up at a very, very bad spot.
I think what happened yesterday was symptomatic of it.
Sanford then turned his focus on Trump, stating that he is part of the reason America has become so deeply divided, and his rhetoric has undoubtedly had an effect on the country.
Sanford didn t mince his words when he said: I would argue that the president is at least in partially not totally but partially to blame for demons that have been unleashed.
The fact that you have the top guy saying I wish I can hit you in the face.
Why don t you and I ll pay your legal fees.
That s bizarre.
We ought to call it as such.
What I ve said back home, some of these people have been frankly weird and different in a town hall meeting.
I say what is going on.
They ll say look, if the guy at the top can say anything to anybody at any time, why can t I?
I think we all need to look for ways to learn from what happened yesterday and to say, wait a minute, this is a pause moment.
What might I do a little differently in the way I reached out to other members.
Finally, a Republican who has the guts to point out just how insane and inappropriate Trump s behavior is, and to acknowledge that there are consequences to having a POTUS who is this unhinged.
You can watch the interview below:Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images