Jim Stachowiak is a staunch Trump supporter who is just sick and tired of it all (though he probably couldn t name an actual problem the United States has) and wants to take his country back and make it great again just like The Donald says.
Sure, Stachowiak (like his Fuhrer) hasn t traditionally bothered with facts, or the truth, or even so much as a rational thought but he has been a foot soldier in the 2016 GOP nominee s war on decency for quite some time.Stachowiak regularly posts Facebook videos with him sharing his dumbass ideas with the world like that we can fight Islam by killing n*ggers, patriots like himself should assassinate Obama, and shooting black kids in the backs would somehow solve crime.Stachowiak has long been inviting mockery long before he famously tried to organize an anti-Muslim rally to which no one showed up.
Now he s inviting you to mock the living hell out of him by asking your opinion of his stupid anti-Obama shirt.Standing on the Bobby Jones Expressway in Georgia (not in traffic, though that might have made this video more entertaining), this Second Amendment-loving deplorable asked one simple question of his viewers: How do you like the shirt, people?
Normally, Stachowiak is the star of the show, the dumbest deplorable in the basket.
But his cameraman decided to steal his crown this time.
A few minutes into their whatever this was, Mr. Cameraman yells:Rights are United States citizens law.
The government is wrong right now.
In this day and age we need the man who will make it all better for us.
The law and all his people in America.
We re fighting for the cause.
Everybody bring out their big gun, cause we bring them home boys.Anybody know that the f*ck he s saying?
He continues:You think if you re a minority you gonna have rights when everything hits the fan and everybody gets to go to camps?
No the only ones that s gonna have rights is those that has something, has money, to make that they gum lick to bein on the other side of that big ol gate.Seriously?
Anyone?
Everyone s gonna see when that time comes, Dipshit adds ominously (you know, if he knew what that word meant).
You think Islam is just over there on the other side of the word, no they are here, he says, apparently having just learned that Islam is a religion and therefore a worldwide thing.
Once the Muslims take over, Camera Guy says, they re gonna chain us up in 10-foot-wall camps and slowly cut our heads off.
We oppose all enemies both foreign and domestic, Stachowiak says.
Your ass is ours people.
Watch as much as you can stomach below:Featured image via screengrab