The former Labor Secretary penned a short message aimed at Donald Trump on Monday, and it was perfect.On New Year s Eve morning, Trump wished Americans a Happy New Year by referring to millions of them as his enemies.Happy New Year to all, including to my many enemies and those who have fought me and lost so badly they just don t know what to do.
Love!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 31, 2016That didn t go so well and it proved that Trump is still divisive and holds a grudge against any American who refuses to kiss his ass.So he attempted a do-over as midnight approached.TO ALL AMERICANS-#HappyNewYear & many blessings to you all!
Looking forward to a wonderful & prosperous 2017 as we work together to #MAGA??
pic.twitter.com/UaBFaoDYHe Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 1, 2017And Trump got his ass handed to him on Twitter for it.Like millions of other Americans, Robert Reich was disgusted by Trump s divisive and vindictive New Year s message, so he wrote a message for Trump in response, pointing out that in a democracy people should be able to be critics of the president without fearing reprisals or being called an enemy.The man who is about to become President of the United States continues to exhibit a mean-spirited, thin-skinned, narcissistic and vindictive character.Trump sees the world in terms of personal wins or losses, enemies or friends, supporters or critics.He hasn t yet figured out that a president holds a position of public trust that transcends personal animus.
A president is supposed to represent all Americans, including those who voted against him and may continue to oppose him.In a democracy, those who fight against a president s policies are not his personal enemies; they are political opponents and critics.
A democracy depends on the freedom to oppose those in power, without fear of reprisal, without being denigrated or labeled an enemy.Reich then wished Trump a Happy New Year and asked him to learn how to act as president before January 20th.Happy New Year, Mr. Trump.
You have 20 days in which to learn how to act as a president.
All of us even those who oppose your policies and worry about your character sincerely hope you do.Let s hope Trump gets this message and it sinks in.
A good first step would be for him to stop using social media.Featured image via Comunicas