Conservative commentator and Trump hater Bill Kristol has been hinting at a third-party alternative to the GOP frontrunner for months.
On Friday, Kristol tweeted that he had indeed found his candidate, and that he was the true principled conservative who would offer voters something real and unique.Well, it s been announced who this Republican savior is and it s National Review writer and constitutional lawyer David French.The man with absolutely no name recognition is the alternative to Trump a guy who literally has his name plastered on skyscrapers.Congratulations, Republicans, you ve managed to make yourselves look more stupid than you already have.
They could have put Romney on the ticket, who may have been the best choice to take on Clinton and Trump.
In a moment of irony, just a week ago, French was calling on Romney to run third party, saying he was the only hope for the GOP s survival.
How about that, not even the current third party candidate thinks he s good enough.And French doesn t even fit the description of what Kristol and his allies were searching for.
According to Bloomberg Politics:According to one person deeply involved in the efforts to recruit an independent challenger, the search has focused on individuals who have one or more of the following three traits seen as vital for credibly launching such a bid: fame, vast wealth, and elective experience.Oh, and there s one more harbinger: French hasn t actually officially announced his candidacy.
So Kristol s only pick might no actually file to run in the first place.Whereas French may be conservative, he is more principled than Trump: while the GOP blowhard has multiple draft deferments and rips off veteran s organizations, French is an Iraq War veteran and a recipient of the Bronze Star.And French, like Kristol, has had a few words to say about Donald Trump.
In March, French wrote a blistering critique of the real estate mogul titled What Now, Conservatives?
likening him to segregationist George Wallace:The party of Lincoln is in ruins.
A minority of its primary voters have torched its founders legacy by voting for a man who combines old-school Democratic ideology, a bizarre form of hyper-violent isolationism, fringe conspiracy theories and serial lies with an enthusiastic flock of online racists to create perhaps the most toxic electoral coalition since George Wallace.How do you know French is a true Republican?
He thinks Trump ruined the GOP when it clearly was George W. Bush.
Oh, and he once referred to Planned Parenthood as disgusting, so that gives you an insight as to how he feels about women s reproductive health.So maybe French isn t all that better than Donald Trump.
Republicans just aren t ready for an orange man with a bad comb-over and tiny hands to ruin their party.Featured image via 93.1 FM WIBC