If Republicans listen to this sage advice, Donald Trump would be a lame duck president before completing his first 100 days.In stunning testimony to Congress on Monday, FBI Director James Comey confirmed that Donald Trump lied when he accused President Obama of wiretapping him.For more than two weeks, Trump has been desperately trying to make his accusations against President Obama stick, but has repeatedly failed to provide evidence to support his claims.That culminated in Comey s testimony under oath in which it was revealed that Trump is full of shit and he is being investigated for colluding with Russia during the 2016 Election.Apparently, the investigation has been ongoing for months, which means Trump s Russia scandal just got a whole lot worse, especially for Republicans who continue to defend him.Comey s testimony was aired on national television and was seen by millions of Americans.At a time when Trump s poll numbers are in the toilet, one would think that Republicans would abandon his sinking ship before they drown with him.
But so far, Republicans are stubbornly standing by him because they don t want to lose their rubber stamp in the White House.Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, however, are urging Republicans to run away from Trump or face serious consequences in 2018 when the midterm elections roll around and give Americans their first chance to tell Trump and his Republican allies to go f*ck themselves.
Republicans have to understand right now, if this continues, and this is awfully early to say this, but if this continues, at least in the House, and there were a lot of Senate seats, they are going to be shocked on Election Night if they don t take care of themselves, Scarborough predicted.
If the Republican Party doesn t start taking care of itself and stop making fools of themselves for a guy who is going to keep tweeting lies and nonsense they can t chase that around, Scarborough continued.
They can t defend the indefensible.
Here s the video via YouTube: If Republicans continue to pretend that Trump is not a threat to our nation there will be hell to pay.
Millions of Trump voters are experiencing buyer s remorse right now and millions of voters who sat out in 2016 are itching to make up for that mistake in 2018 and 2020.
But regardless of what Republicans in the House and Senate do, they should be ousted from office anyway.
They had a chance to prevent Trump from ever becoming president and put their greed and lust for power above the security and well-being of the nation.
They betrayed the United States by turning a blind eye to Trump s associations with Russia and Vladimir Putin and they continue to betray our country now.
Republicans should abandon Trump to save their souls, not their jobs.Featured image screenshot