Following a series of unhinged tweets from Trump that accuse Obama of illegally spying on him during the election cycle, the intelligence community and the rest of the country have been in an uproar.
Many are screaming for him to release his evidence or shut the hell up, and he appears unable to handle the growing scandal around him.
But the FBI is doing something else.
Director James Comey actually asked the Justice Department to publicly reject Trump s claims.Or, put another way, Comey just asked the DOJ to openly state that Trump lied to the American people.Comey says that the claim is false and must be corrected, and he would know because it was his agency that sought the warrant authorizing wiretapping from the FISA court.
The FISA court granted the warrant back in October, after previously refusing to grant it over the summer.
Comey is angry because Trump s claims suggest that the FBI broke the law.This is unprecedented it s the FBI director issuing a public rebuke to a sitting president.
The White House, however, isn t backing down because they don t back down on anything.
Once Trump says something, the White House goes through all sorts of bizarre gyrations to back him up.
We get that it s bad for White House spokespeople, aides and senior staff to contradict their boss, but this is ridiculous.
This is something on which they should know better.While the DOJ has yet to actually issue a statement saying anything at all, it seems that this is something Trump can no longer handle.
One of the rogue government accounts, Rogue POTUS Staff, says that Trump actually seems to be traumatized by the unfolding scandal he can t cope with it at all:We re not making light of anything.
POTUS seems actually traumatized by recent spate of Russiagate coverage.
He can t cope right now.
Rogue POTUS Staff (@RoguePOTUSStaff) March 5, 2017In the end, it doesn t really matter if he s unable to cope with an unfolding scandal the size of Watergate (or big enough to blow Watergate out of the sky).
He lied to the public, and the FBI and DOJ both need to publicly say so, along with including the recordings from the taps in their investigations.Photo of James Comey by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.
Photo of Donald Trump by Jim Lo Scalzo Pool/Getty Images.