If you haven t noticed, but you probably have, the news media never calls Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump out on his constant lying.The most recent example of this was during the NBC Commander-in-Chief Forum when Matt Lauer went really hard on Hillary Clinton when it came to demanding answers, and then was ridiculously soft on Trump, even though Trump believes Lauer was too hard on him.Well, one person in particular is absolutely fed up with these media shenanigans and that person is Samantha Bee of TBS s Full Frontal.
Bee said: There s no time to report the facts and what people feel are the facts.
You ve got to choose one.
Guys, we are swimming in bad information.
Our dads are on Facebook.
Chemtrails are not real, dad.
Adding: Why can t the media just tell us what s true and what s bullsh*t?
Bee also points out that many in the media are refusing to call Trump out for lying because then it could appear that they are biased with their own opinion.
However, she lays to rest that common misconception when she says: Calling a liar a liar isn t an opinion if you can prove it.
That s what we call a fact.
The idea that news network executives traded their balls for ratings, that s just my opinion.
And as many in the media are trying to make Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton somehow equal when it comes to being qualified, or equally as bad, they are clearly mistaken.
Bee lets them have it and does NOT hold back, saying: Maintaining the image of fairness requires them to portray Hillary and Trump as equally flawed candidates, even though they know that s incorrect.
On the one hand you have the most breathtakingly, unqualified, ignoramus to of heave his balls within striking distance of office.
A race-baiting bully who, according to two meticulously researched biographies, is a tax cheating, investor swindling, worker- shafting, dictator-loving, pathologically lying, attorneys general bribing, philandering, mobbed up, narcissistic serial con artist who hasn t got the attention span to read a fortune cookie much less a f*cking intelligence briefing.
Adding: But on the other hand, Hillary used a private email server.
See?
Perfectly even.
BOOM!Yeah, not exactly even.
Trump is the LAST thing we need for this nation in general, let alone as Commander-in-Chief.Well f*cking done, Sam.Watch Same Bee tear the media a new one here:Featured image via video screen capture, HT C&L