On September 5, 2017, the Daily Mail reported:Afghan asylum seeker accused of raping and murdering EU official s teenage daughter attacked her to satisfy his sexual urges before leaving her unconscious in a river to drown Hussein Khavari, 22, who claims to be from Afghanistan has been accused of ambushing Maria Ladenburger, 19, as she cycled home after a party, raping her and then drowning her in Freiburg, Germany last October.He was linked through his DNA to medical student Maria, who volunteered at various shelters that house migrants in her spare time in Freiburg.Hussein claimed to be Afghani but the court heard that there is evidence he is Iraqi.
And his claim to be 17 at the time of the offense was disputed by a specialist saying he was at least 22.
According to Bild newspaper, during a morning session of hearings in which press and public were excluded, he claimed to be 19.He said he claimed to be 16 upon his arrival in Germany in 2015 because the situation is better here for underage migrants.
The court must decide if he is to be tried as a juvenile or an adult.A murder conviction as a juvenile would mean a maximum ten-year jail term, as an adult a possible life sentence.As it turns out, the fake teenager who admitted to raping and murdering the actual teenager, is pretty far removed from his teenage years.
According to the Voice of Europe, the Afghan refugee, who is now on trial for the rape and murder of the medical student Maria Ladenburger in October 2016, is older than previously thought.Hussein Khavari entered Germany in November 2015 without identity papers.
He told authorities that he was born in 1999 in Afghanistan and that his father was killed during the war.But it now appears that his father is still alive.
According to German media source, Bil.de, his father said his son was born in 1984 and that he is 33-years-old.The Local Germany says about it: Prosecutors were able to track down Hussein K. s father when they came across a contact on his mobile phone.
The defendant told them that they could contact his mother on the number.
But when an interpreter called the number in the presence of two judges, the person who picked up was his father .Maria Ladenburger s father is a senior legal adviser to the European Commission in Brussels.
Maria herself was volunteering as a refugee worker in various shelters and asylum homes.