It was just this morning that Donald Trump once again tried to ignore his mounting failures and pump up his ego by trashing the press.
Taking to Twitter, the undeserving POTUS bashed the New York Times (again) with yet another one of his lies.
And after Trump trashed the New York Times, he posted another tweet about the vicious and inaccurate media:If the people of our great country could only see how viciously and inaccurately my administration is covered by certain media!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2017However, thanks to a new poll released by Monmouth University, Trump s temper tantrums about the press are far from over, because he seems to be alone in his opinion.
The Monmouth University poll revealed that thanks to Trump s numerous lies and falsehoods, Americans now view MSNBC as a more credible source than him!You can only imagine how devastating it is for Trump to realize that his attacks on fake news are actually working against him and HELPING networks that dare to publish the truth about him.
The poll stated: Only 28% of Americans are more likely trust Trump as an information source compared to ABC news while most (53%) say they would tend to trust ABC more, with 15% saying they would trust both sides equally.
When pitted against MSNBC, 33% trust Trump more while 47% trust the liberal leaning cable channel more, with 15% trusting both about equally.
When pitted against Fox News, only 17% trust Trump more while 37% trust the politically conservative news outlet more, with 36% trusting both about equally.
Another interesting but not surprising finding from the poll was the fact that networks like MSNBC and ABC were viewed as more credible than Fox News, which has previously been outed as the most dishonest network (which is likely why Trump cites them so much).
The only area where Trump is actually succeeding in credibility is among Republicans, who tend to take Trump s nonsense as the truth.
The poll reported: The story is different, though, when isolating the views of Republicans.
Americans who identify as GOP partisans are more likely to have confidence in Trump over any of the news sources tested in the poll.
This is especially true for MSNBC Trump is more trusted by a 66% to 16% margin and ABC News Trump is more trusted by a 56% to 22% margin.
The president even has a slight, although statistically insignificant, 29% to 26% trust advantage over Fox News among his fellow partisans, with 44% of Republicans saying they trust both equally as an information source.
So, Trump basically screwed himself over by trying to damage the credibility of the free press.
While it s somewhat satisfying to see his attacks on the media backfire, we must not forget that what Trump s ridiculous behavior has resulted in is extremely dangerous.
The White House now has no credibility, which could be devastating in the event that something serious happens.
No one can trust the president, and he has undermined the credibility of the government.
It will take a long time to repair this and rebuild the trust of the American people.Featured image is a screenshot