Just before the gunman began shooting, the Las Vegas concert crowd sang God Bless America It s an amazing moment of togetherness that would end in horror.
Please pray for the victims and their loved ones Sean Hannity showed the video tonight during a segment.Big and Rich performed an hour before Jason Aldene:A woman tells of her firsthand experience at the concert: I can t get the sound out of my head of the gunshots Pray for the victims.
Pray for the families and friends of the victims.
Pray for America America is reeling from the worst mass shooting in its history after at least 50 people were killed and more than 200 wounded at a country music festival in Las Vegas on Sunday night.Police say the shooter was 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, described as a local man, who opened fire on the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas Village from a room across the street in the Mandalay Bay Hotel shortly after 10pm.Officers say Paddock killed himself right before they breached a room in the hotel, where he had stashed an arsenal of weapons used during the massacre.Paddock s companion and roommate, Marilou Danley was apprehended early Monday morning.
Investigators are now raiding the Mesquite home he shared with Marilou Danley, described as his companion .Sheriff Joseph Lombardo, of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, said investigations are still ongoing and police have not yet determined a motive.President Donald Trump paid his respects on Monday morning after the shooting, writing on Twitter: My warmest condolences and sympathies to the victims and families of the terrible Las Vegas shooting.
God bless you!
My warmest condolences and sympathies to the victims and families of the terrible Las Vegas shooting.
God bless you!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 2, 2017Terrifying footage from the scene shows concert-goers reacting with confusion and then panic as the festival turned into a bloodbath around them.Video from close to the stage shows people hitting the floor as others crawl to safety or run for their lives.
Audio from further back in the crowd captured several bursts of sustained automatic gunfire.Footage shows the moment the sound of gunfire stops a Las Vegas concert.
There are reports of multiple injuries pic.twitter.com/y5x0bA1F8N Sky News (@SkyNews) October 2, 2017Witnesses said hundreds of rounds of ammunition were emptied into the crowd, with Paddock stopping several times to reload as he carried out his massacre.Among those shot dead at the concert were two off-duty police officers.
Attendees said a large number of law enforcement and military personnel had been attending the show.Two on-duty police officers who engaged the shooter have been hospitalized one in critical condition, the other less-severely wounded.
They have not been identified.All of the ambulances in the area were been deployed to the location, and victims taken to two hospitals.
Singer Jason Aldean flees stage as gunman opens fire into crowd.Video footage of the shooting shows performer Jason Aldean on stage as the automatic gunfire rings out.
Aldean continues performing for ten seconds as the gunfire rings out constantly, only stopping after screams begin to rise from the crowds.People in the crowds argue over whether they just heard gunshots as the lights on the stage dim and Aldean and his band leave.
He later posted a message on Instagram that read: Tonight has been beyond horrific.
I still dont know what to say but wanted to let everyone know that Me and my Crew are safe.Eyewitness Gail Davis tells her horrific story and thanks a law enforcement officer who saved her life.
A metro officer, who I owe my life to actually covered me up to protect me from being shot, Las Vegas shooting witness says.
pic.twitter.com/X0KxOqgaKL CBS This Morning (@CBSThisMorning) October 2, 2017 My Thoughts and prayers go out to everyone involved tonight.
It hurts my heart that this would happen to anyone who was just coming out to enjoy what should have been a fun night.
#heartbroken #stopthehate Aldean was the closing act of the festival.
Taking to Twitter, many other stars sent out their thoughts and prayers to those affected.Jake Owen, who played the main stage before Aldean, tweeted: Praying for everyone here in Vegas.
I witnessed the most unimaginable event tonight.
We are okay.
Others aren t. Please pray.
Lauren Alaina, tweeted: Praying for everyone at Route 91.
That crowd was one of the best I ve played for all year.
This news is devastating.
My camp is home & safe.
The Brothers Osborne urged revelers to find cover immediately, tweeting: Just hearing about active shooting at Route 91 Festival in Vegas.
Take cover and get safe immediately!
Prayers to everyone there.
Singer Lee Brice, who performed on the opening night on Friday, posted: Hearts out to Vegas.
Route 91 concert, stage I played two nights ago.
Musicians, fans, workers, you are all in our prayers right now.
Michael Ray said: My heart is breaking we were just there Friday!
My prayers are with everyone.
Daily Mail