A new analysis by the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan research group devoted to educating taxpayers, shows that some of the most conservative states in the nation are the most dependent on the federal government.
Really?
How can this be, you say?
Republicans hate the federal government, right?
While some conservative states certainly do, the reddest states (most particularly the Bible Belt in the south) actually rely on Uncle Sam far more than the most liberal states in the nation.
It s pretty hilarious, actually.Looking at the data, you ll see that five of the ten most conservative states in the country are considered to be in the top 10 (out of 50) that are most reliant on the federal government.
The numbers are calculated as a share of government revenue coming from the Fed, as opposed to self-reliant sources within their own state.
Each state is given a percentage (located on the map below).
This can include Medicaid payments, education funding, infrastructure financing, grants, etc.Pic via GallopGo ahead and take a look.
You will see that Mississippi is #1 in both categories; it s the most conservative and the neediest.
That s just one example.
We have a feeling that each state would turn blue real quick if Republicans got their way on most of their economic policies directed towards the poor.
This proves that some of the most conservative states in the country would barely be able to get by without the federal government.Pic via Washington PostSee where California ranks?
Not only is it the most populous (by far), but it s considered to be one of the top six most liberal states, you know, the sort that passes all kinds of progressive reforms conservatives claim to hate.
Well, guess what?
It s one of the LEAST dependent on Uncle Sam.
That s right the state s liberal politicians do a better job generating revenue by itself i.e.
creating jobs, making sure education is a priority, all those liberal ideas that actually make a difference in people s lives without needing as much help.It s information like this that is sure to blow the mind of any Republican reading it that is if they re open minded enough to digest objective facts.
But, we know better than this.
Conservatives don t care about facts.
They just know they hate welfare anyone else receiving welfare; just not the monies they personally get.Featured image via Wikipedia.