With just ten days to go until the election, one would expect that Donald Trump and his campaign would be in a flurry of final pushes to win over undecided voters, and maybe, possibly a final push towards really reaching minorities.
Instead, his campaign is just as screwed up now as it was when it launched, according to an in-depth look at the campaign courtesy of New York Magazine.
Perhaps most damning is that Trump has more or less told his own campaign manager how he really feels about people, even his own followers: I got really mad at him the other day, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway told me.
He said, I think we ll win, and if not, that s okay too.
And I said, It s not okay!
You can t say that!
Your dry-cleaning bill is like the annual salaries of the people who came to your rallies, and they believe in you!'
He shrugged off all his followers in that conversation, as well as Conway.
While a ton of his followers are pretty disgusting people, they re still his followers, and he really ought to give half a damn about them.
Honestly, though, why would a narcissist like Trump care about anyone?
The biggest reason the campaign has failed to reach various sectors of the population is, in large part, because Trump thinks he can just do whatever he wants.But that s not all.
It s actually to be expected that Trump wouldn t care about anyone but himself.
However, he doesn t know what to do with all these followers.
All he really knows how to do is keep them fired up in their righteous anger.
In doing so, their blind devotion feeds his ego and helps keep him in the spotlight.And instead of listening to guidance from his advisers, he s increasingly using the campaign just to bolster his brands.
His style, which bugged the hell out of his former manager, Paul Manafort, continues to bug the hell out the rest of his staff.
The only exception might be Steve Bannon, who may have his own plans for all those supporters whom Trump is throwing under the bus.Some say that Trump can t handle actually taking advice, including Manafort s advice to keep a low profile and force the media to focus on Hillary: His ego couldn t handle it, said one Republican close to the campaign.
Hillary understood that Trump needed to be the focus.
As his poll numbers climbed, Trump felt he didn t need to listen to Manafort.
The worst part about Trump is when he was ahead, the prominent Republican said.
He d get into the lead and then he would veer off and start defending his interests and his honor and it had nothing to do with what people actually care about.
He s not disciplined.
And his ego is what fueled his feud with the Khans, who are a Gold Star family that lost their son in Iraq in 2004.
That was all about his ego he didn t even know what a Gold Star family was before he decided the Khans were his enemy: The election is about the American people, it s not about you, Manafort told Trump, according to a person briefed on the conversation.
Trump countered with Breitbart s report on Khan s purported belief in Sharia.
He s not running for president, Manafort shot back.
The Clintons did this to us to waste our time getting off message.
And it worked it worked very well.
Everything anyone has ever done in this campaign to get Trump off message and onto whatever just bruised his poor widdle ego again has worked.Trump might well be looking to the future but it s very likely not a future in the White House that he sees.
There have been rumors floating around that he s using this campaign to start his own media company.
His son-in-law, Jared Kushner, is busy compiling 14 million email addresses and credit card numbers of loyal Trumpkins, which New York Magazine speculates could form the basis of a new Trump media company.While Kushner denies all of this, a spokesman for a Republican who declined to be named told the magazine: Kushner has approached Wall Street bankers and pitched ideas for media start-ups.
How do we monetize this?
he s asked.
(Through a spokesperson, Kushner denied having such meetings.)
Whether it s his own media company, or promoting his own business interests and ego, or both, it s clearer now than ever that Trump doesn t care what happens to his followers, let alone whether or not he wins.
He wants the spotlight.
How he gets it is of no consequence, and what he does with it is of even less consequence.
This could be good news for us because it could solidify Hillary s win, but it lays bare the sheer lack of character that exists within Trump.Featured image by Sara D. Davis via Getty Images