A woman was raped by a football player at the University of North Carolina and she says that when she reported the attack to campus police, they laughed in her face.Delaney Robinson decided to go public with her horrific ordeal because she felt it would be the only way to get justice since the school would obviously rather protect a sports star than prosecute a sexual assault.
Speaking at a press conference, Robinson said that on the night of Feb. 14, Tar Heels junior linebacker Allen Artis brutally raped her in a dorm room while she was incapacitated.
Denise Branch, Robinson s attorney, said that her client went to the hospital following the assault, where they examined her and collected evidence with a rape kit.
According to hospital records, Robinson suffered vaginal injuries consistent with blunt-force trauma and bruising consistent with a physical assault.
But when she reported the sexual assault to campus police, they simply laughed in her face and asked her a litany of offensive, victim-blaming questions.
I was treated like a suspect, she said.
What was I wearing?
What was I drinking?
How much did I drink?
How much did I eat that day?
Did I lead him on?
Have I hooked up with him before?
Do I often have one-night stands?
Did I even say no?
What is my sexual history?
How many men have I slept with?
Robinson added that she was allowed to listen to an audio recording her attacker s interrogation, and it was much different than what she had been forced to endure.
Rather than accusing him of anything, the investigators spoke to him with a tone of camaraderie, Robinson said.
They provided reassurances to him when he became upset.
They even laughed with him when he told them how many girls phone numbers he had managed to get on the same night he raped me.
Robinson freely admits that she had been drinking on the night in question, but according to the assistant district attorney for Orange County unconsciousness is rape, blackout drunk is not rape.
After police and prosecutors convinced Robinson that there was no way she had enough evidence to pursue felony charges, she filed two misdemeanor charges.
Artis was arrested for the assault on Tuesday and according to District Attorney Jim Woodall, the case is still pending.This case is just the latest incident of rape that has been brushed off thanks to America s rape culture.
Brock Turner was released after serving only three months in jail for raping an unconscious woman behind a dumpster.
But hey, he had a promising swimming career and athletes get a free pass when it comes to rape.Robinson said her life has changed forever while the person who assaulted me continues as a student and a football player on this campus.
As of Tuesday evening, UNC had not yet released a statement regarding the allegations.Featured image via Streeter Lecka/Getty Images