Meanwhile, families with two full time working parents have been choosing generic cheerios from the cereal aisle at Kroger and forgoing vacations so welfare recipients can fill their leisure time with fun activities.
If you re wondering how we ever got to this point, look no further than the Democrats freebies (on your dime) for votes scheme There s nothing fun about being on welfare, and a new Kansas law aims to keep it that way.Republican Gov.
Sam Brownback signed House Bill 2258 into law Thursday.
The measure means Kansas families receiving government assistance will no longer be able to use those funds to visit swimming pools, see movies, go gambling or get tattoos on the state s dime.Those are just a few of the restrictions contained within the law that aims to tighten regulations on how poor families spend their government aid.
It will go into effect July 1.The measure called the HOPE Act by supporters provides an opportunity for success, Brownback said in a statement after signing the bill.
It s about the dignity of work and helping families move from reliance on a government pittance to becoming self-sufficient by developing the skills to find a well-paying job and build a career.
State Sen. Michael O Donnell, a Wichita Republican who has advocated for the bill, said the legislation was designed to pressure those receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families to spend more responsibly.
We re trying to make sure those benefits are used the way they were intended, O Donnell, vice chair of the state senate s standing committee on public health and welfare, told the Topeka Capital-Journal earlier this year.
This is about prosperity.
This is about having a great life.
That, according to the legislation, means limiting spending on body piercings, massages, spas, tobacco, nail salons, lingerie, arcades, cruise ships or visits to psychics.
The measure which limits TANF recipients from withdrawing more than $25 per day from ATMs also forbids recipients from spending money at a: theme park, dog or horse racing facility, parimutuel facility, or sexually oriented business or any retail establishment which provides adult-oriented entertainment in which performers disrobe or perform in an unclothed state for entertainment, or in any business or retail establishment where minors under age 18 are not permitted.
I just think we are simply saying to people, If you are asking for assistance in this state, you re sort of less than other people and we re going to tell you how and where to spend your money, state Rep. Carolyn Bridges, a Wichita Democrat, said during a House debate, according to the Associated Press.The Kansas House and Senate passed the bill April 2 with wide support from Republicans, who control both legislative chambers, according to the APVia: Washington Post