We all heard the reasons why Republicans, mainly Mitch McConnell, swear that they will not confirm President Obama s SCOTUS nominee.
It s all about the process or about rules that don t actually exist.
That s what Mitch keeps saying anyway.
It turns out he s nothing but a damned liar, and the hard evidence is in the video below.Do you remember what Mitch has been saying about why he s blocking the nominee?
It s up to the next elected president to appoint a replacement.
These were literally his exact words for weeks.
He and other Republicans claim it will give the American people a voice by voting for president, allowing them to determine what side gets to pick a replacement on the Supreme Court.With McConnell s exact words in mind, CNN host Dana Bash asked Mitch if Hillary or Bernie won in November, would Republicans then concede to the will of the people and vote on and/or confirm Merrick Garland during the final months of the Obama presidency?The context is obvious.
If Democrats retain control of the presidency and the nominee was content with Garland, then the people have spoken and a Democratic nominee should get a hearing and be confirmed.
It would be the will of the people, as Mitch keeps saying.This is the part where Mitch forgot what he was doing and accidentally spoke truthfully.Mitch s answer to Dana was a total contradiction to every reason he s been giving about why he is holding up the confirmation process.
Mitch flat out said that Republicans would NEVER allow President Obama s nominee to be placed on the Supreme Court, even if Democrats won the presidential election in November.
He literally went from saying if Democrats win they get their pick, to saying even if they won Republicans would not confirm their appointment.
McConnell s lame excuse was that the NRA opposed Garland.
Great..
Here we go with the NRA again.At this point, it s hard to say if this is a personal grudge McConnell has with Obama, or if this is really the will of the Republican establishment.
Mitch has been working very hard for 8 long years to sabotage the president while Obama just keeps handing him defeat after defeat.
Now, Mitch s irrationally racist obsession with soiling the legacy of our first black president will officially extend beyond Obama s second term in office.One thing s for sure.
Mitch just proved what a total liar he is, that Republicans do not actually care about the will of the voters, and that nobody can ever trust a Republican for any reason.Watch Mitch McConnel prove what a liar he is below:Featured image via screen capture