Trump s threatening of the press seems to be paying dividends already, with at least one publication removing a quote that could be seen as embarrassing, for Trump the Washington Post.On Tuesday, Buzzfeed reported that a quote was removed from Washington Post columnist Richard Cohen column published that morning and it s a prett important one.
The publication reports:Trump was reportedly referring to his daughter, Ivanka, who was 13 years old at the time.The quote was circulated Monday in a draft of Cohen s piece Our Next President, The Godfather that was sent to outlets that syndicate the column, a source told BuzzFeed News.
The quote did not appear in the later, final version of the piece carried by the Post and other outlets.Cohen s column details the president-elect s increasingly blurred familial and political ties as he prepares to enter the White House.The reporting appeared in an advance version of the column that was circulated on Monday for publication on Tuesday and thereafter.
It appeared as an aside after the introduction of Jared Kushner, which still appears in the final column:Jared Kushner, our Tom Hagen, who married Trump s stunning daughter Ivanka Can I ask you something?
Trump asked someone I know, about his then-13-year-old kid, Is it wrong to be more sexually attracted to your own daughter than your wife?
has lately lost some of this Boy Scout aura.
It turns out Kushner s admission to Harvard was preceded by his father s $2.5 million pledge.However, the words between the hyphens you know, the ones that reveal what a scumbag our next President is were quietly removed from the final version.
The Washington Post offered Buzzfeed a suspiciously dodgy excuse for the removal (hint: it wasn t that the quote was fake).
We (or the Washington Post Writers Group, our affiliated syndicate) edit every column to try to make it as good as it can be, editorial page editor Fred Hiatt said.
We don t think it would be fair to our writers to discuss the editing process, and don t see what is to be gained by talking about things that are not published there are countless drafts that never see the light of day, Hiatt added, still not explaining why it was removed.On Monday, Trump gathered major media heads together in one room so he could scream at them and call them liars Lugenpresse, to use his supporters term.
The removal of this damning quote seems to be a reaction to the President-elect s bullying of the press and yet another example of the media failing to hold The Donald accountable for anything he does or says.It might seem unbelievable that Trump would say such a thing about his daughter, but we re dealing with a man who has been talking about having sex with her since around the time he met Paris Hilton and thought she was hot (Hilton was 12 at the time).Recently, after Trump appeared on Dr. Oz, the show cut out a remark about kissing Ivanka as often as possible.
He has also been photographed in numerous suggestive poses with his daughter (including a prizewinning one of the two of them in bed together), when she was around 13 years old.
He also has made it very clear that the two of them have sex in common (there is video of that), was caught on tape hitting on a 10-year-old and, of course, who can forget that time he groped Ivanka on national television (at least she was an adult in this case).
Then, of course, there is the fact that he is accused of raping a 13-year-old girl (his accuser abruptly dropped the lawsuit after Trump s supporters threatened her).We may never know why the Washington Post removed this latest horrific quote about Trump s daughter, but one thing is for certain: it was just a grain of sand on a beach of horribleness.Featured image via If You Only News/Getty Images (archive)