Trump s been known to dodge difficult questions during interviews, but what happened Monday morning on CNN was pure madness.Less than a minute after the presumptive Republican nominee started his interview with Chris Cuomo on New Day, Trump was attacking Cuomo and the network.
After immediately criticizing the way Cuomo was questioning him, Trump took aim at CNN, claiming that the network favored Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton and purposefully did not air favorable coverage during his campaign.This chaos erupted right after Cuomo asked Trump why he would choose to attack Clinton for the actions of her husband.
He asked Trump: You are attacking Hillary Clinton for the sexual past and indiscretions of her husband.
What is your thinking on this line of attack?
Well, Trump didn t even come close to answering that question.
The presidential hopeful got super-fiesty with Cuomo and snapped, Well this is a nice way to start off the interview.
In all seriousness, Trump threw a temper tantrum and sounded like a child as he continued his pathetic attempt to shame Cuomo and CNN: First of all, you should congratulate me for having won the race.
I thought, you know, at least there would be a small congratulations but I m not surprised with CNN because that s the way they treat Trump.
You know, they call it the Clinton Network, and I believe that.
So, uh, let s start off right there.
Cuomo fired back and reminded the dense business mogul, I said congratulations the last time we spoke!
What followed next was completely unbecoming of a presidential candidate but perfectly expected from Trump.
The presidential hopeful bickered with Cuomo over what was said and when, and then Trump had the nerve to say to the show host, I understand CNN perhaps a lot better than you do!
Then, continuing his obvious plan to avoid answering Cuomo s question about his attacks on Clinton and her husband s marital infidelities, Trump went on a bizarre rant about pretty much everything except what Cuomo asked him.
All the while, he continued to attack CNN for not giving him the kind of coverage he wanted.
Trump said: Nor does CNN ever show the crowds.
I could be making a speech for an hour and they ll never show the crowds!
The interview was completely awkward, but shows perfectly that Trump s main strategy for getting through debates and interviews is to distract the interviewer and audience with his hissy fits and over-the-top bragging.
You can watch Trump have his meltdown below:Featured image via John Sommers II / Getty Images