Donald Trump is so thin-skinned that he would rather sit in the White House and pout instead of attending the White House Correspondent s Dinner.It is a tradition for the president to attend the annual White House Correspondent s Dinner.
It s a chance to spend time with reporters and journalists and enjoy the entertainment of a comedian.
Stephen Colbert, Craig Ferguson, Jon Stewart, and Jay Leno are just a few of the big-name comedians who have headlined the event.
And presidents get the opportunity to let off some steam by delivering jokes.
President Obama was particularly skilled at self-deprecating humor while also making jokes about his critics.For example, President Obama once seriously burned Donald Trump with a joke in 2011 in reference to Trump s birtherism.
Now, I know that he s taken some flak lately, but no one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to rest than The Donald, Obama said.
And that s because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that matter like, did we fake the moon landing?
What really happened in Roswell?
And where are Biggie and Tupac?
President Obama then joked about Trump s leadership on Celebrity Apprentice for firing Gary Busey after a cooking contest.
These are the kind of decisions that would keep me up at night.
Well handled, sir.
Well handled, Obama said.
Meanwhile, Obama had just ordered the raid that killed Osama Bin Laden, which makes his appearance at the Dinner even more impressive.But Trump has decided to be a big baby and is now the first president to ever skip the event.
Ronald Reagan did not attend in 1981, but he had a good excuse since he had just been shot.
But he still managed to deliver some remarks via phone.I will not be attending the White House Correspondents Association Dinner this year.
Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2017During a discussion on CNN on Saturday, New York Times TV critic Bill Carter took Trump to the woodshed for cowardly refusing to attend.
Republicans always criticize the media, Carter said.
This has reached a point where it s over the top, actually.
Any story that s critical of him now becomes fake.
Indeed, Trump has declared war on the media because they refuse to be his cheerleading squad.
And I think the fact that he s bowing out of this dinner, it has a little bit of the quality of You can t fire me, I quit.
because a lot of people are dropping out of this dinner, Carter continued.And it s true.
Trump s attacks on the media have caused many news outlets to cancel parties and refuse to go to the dinner.
Now that Trump isn t going, perhaps these outlets will now reverse their decision.But Carter wasn t done yet.
Carter said that Trump knows he isn t going to get a good reception from the crowd at this event, particularly in light of his claim that the media is the enemy of the American people.
In other words, Trump is literally running away because he doesn t want to be criticized.
He likes to have paid applauders, he quipped.
The whole thing would have been fraught for him.
And I know there s been a lot of criticism of Democrats for being snowflakes, but it s sort of snowflake-y to me, to back out of this.
Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump knows that he won t be a very welcome guest at the dinner event, but that doesn t mean he should tuck his tail between his legs and run away.
If ever there was a chance for a mea culpa with the media, this is it.
Trump could apologize to the media for his unfair and un-American attacks on them and try to build a better relationship with them.
But he won t because he is a petulant child who would rather throw a temper tantrum instead of doing something that makes him look like a grown-up.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images