The GOP was right.
Thanks to Target s decision to let transgender people use the bathroom in which they feel most comfortable, all sorts of weirdos are showing up.
No, we re not talking about people going into the ladies room to pee.
Recently, a creepy new trend has been spreading through the Christian Right like chlamydia through a Texas school that teaches abstinence-only sex education.
Christians have been marching through Target stores across the nation whole screaming about how evil it is to allow human beings to go to the bathroom without feeling out of place.In one video, a Bible-waving mother marches through a Target store with her husband and children in tow to let people know what she views as the truth about Target s evil bathroom policy: Attention Target customers: Do not be deceived.
Target would have you believe that they love mothers and children.
This is a deception.
This is not love, and they ve proven it by opening their bathrooms to perverted men.
I am a mother of 12, she announces with her Bible raised in the air, and I am very disgusted by this wicked practice.
Target does not protect mothers and children.
Mothers, get your children out of this store, she commanded.
Mother, have enough decency to get out of this store.
It s a dangerous place.
She added that Target s inclusive policy is hateful toward families, children, and mothers.
Then things got REALLY crazy: America, when are you going to wake up?
When are you going to stand up for the right things, America?
Are you going to let the Devil rape your children, America?
It s time to stand up and have a voice instead of bowing to the homosexual perverted agenda that s taking over this nation?
You need to run and flee this place.
I wouldn t spend a penny of my money here.
This is wicked.
This is confusion.
This is twisted.
This is abominable in the sight of God.
Transgender people have been using public bathrooms for an untold length of time.
It s never been an issue until Republicans decided it was more important of an issue than poverty, our crumbling infrastructure, educating our children, or even remembering to put the toilet seat down (sorry honey).
What is most unfortunate is that this woman took her children along with her on this insane and hateful escapade.
It is unknown how much damage she is doing to her children by teaching them nothing but hatred.Republicans were right: creeps are flooding into Target.
Just not the creeps they meant.Watch the video below:Featured image via screengrab