While she has come out and defended her husband against the very serious allegations that he is, in fact, the Zodiac Killer, Heidi Cruz may have said something more damaging at a campaign stop in Indiana.The Cruz campaign misspoke, but some say it was a Freudian slip when Heidi Cruz said, on camera: Do you know that Ted has been winning the millennial vote in state after state.
He s been winning the women s vote in state after state.
Ted is an immigrant.
He is Hispanic.
We can unify this party.
Heidi Cruz: #LyinTed is an Immigrant, not eligible to be President Video:#TrumpTrain#Trump2016#MAGA#INPrimary pic.twitter.com/cvyx9MbC6M The Loud Majority (@TheLoudMajority) May 2, 2016The campaign says she meant to say he is the son of an immigrant (who played a part in the JFK assassination, according to Donald Trump).
Cruz just gave all the ammo in the world to the Trump campaign with that statement.
Considering the fact they encompass a group of xenophobic bigots, there is no way in hell they ll consider voting for an immigrant and a Hispanic now, especially after the alliance between Cruz and Kasich.And of course Trump pounced on Heidi s comments, saying: Heidi Cruz nice woman.
She said this one: My husband s an immigrant!
He s an immigrant!
That s what I ve been trying to say She was maybe trying to put a Latin turn on it.
He was born in Canada, folks.I wonder when Republicans are going to accuse the Cruz campaign of playing the race card.
While Fiorina accuses the Clinton campaign of playing up gender for support, maybe she should paying attention to what her running mate s wife is saying.Coupled with his basketball ring comment and now Heidi s he s an immigrant comment, Cruz s chances of winning in Indiana have plummeted.
And if that s not bad enough, with an Indiana loss, there goes his chances of getting enough delegates to challenge Trump.The Cruz s comments are now synonymous with the Howard Dean scream and Mitt Romney s 47 percent.
Featured image via John Lamparski/Getty Images