Of course Emily s List is going to support Hillary, because Democrats have been doing their part to keep the unwanted or undesirable babies from making it out of the womb alive for decades .WASHINGTON, D.C. Today EMILY s List, the nation s largest resource for women in politics, endorsed Hillary Clinton for president.
Clinton is on track to become the first woman to win the Democratic nomination, and if elected, the first woman president of the United States.
Hillary Clinton is a lifelong champion for women and families and the most qualified candidate to be president, said Stephanie Schriock, President of EMILY s List.
With roots in the middle class, Hillary s top priority is changing the economic reality for American families.
Her focus is on strengthening the middle class, creating jobs, and making sure hardworking families get a fair shot.
No one will work harder than Hillary.
She knows how to lead so Washington fights for all Americans.
As president, Hillary will create more opportunities than ever for women and girls (give them access to on demand abortions) and for all hardworking Americans across the country, just as she has done throughout her exceptional career.
The EMILY s List community now more than three million members strong is proud to endorse Hillary Clinton for president.
Hillary Clinton has devoted her entire career to fighting for women and families (supporting the killing of unborn babies).
Instead of going to a big law firm after graduating from Yale Law School, she took her first job going door to door for the Children s Defense Fund.
She helped lead the fight for the Children s Health Insurance Program as first lady of the United States, and she put emphasis on women s rights as a cornerstone of American foreign policy as Secretary of State.A visionary leader who s always worked to create opportunity for others, Hillary has said she believes our challenge is to be clear-eyed about the world as it is while never losing sight of the world as we want it to become.
When she is elected president, it will mean more opportunities for women, more opportunities for girls, and more opportunities for hardworking Americans across the country.Via: Weasel Zippers