Milton Parker, a former paraprofessional (like a teacher but not quite) from New York, is currently defending punching an 11-year-old autistic student so hard that the child suffered a concussion.
His defense?
It was a reflexive action.
That might fly if Parker was facing an adult but he was facing an 11-year-old sitting in the cafeteria of PS 225, located in Brooklyn.Here s the disturbing video:The parents of the student are suing Parker for $5 million because they say their son is now afraid to go into school buildings and has to be homeschooled.
As the parent of an autistic child, I can attest that one horrible incident can leave that kind of impact and as the parent of a non-autistic child as well, I can attest that it s MUCH harder for an autistic child to get over a traumatic incident.
Finally, I can fully attest that if a teacher hit my son like that, they d be lucky if I stopped at a concussion.
After punching the child, Parker was charged with felony assault (but plead down to misdemeanor assault) and put in for retirement (perhaps sensing that he had become a danger to children?)
but maintains he did nothing wrong:Milton Parker, who is being sued along with the city by the parents of Anatoly Veltman, said the blow he delivered was a reflex act in response to the boy hitting him first.
Who gets hit and doesn t respond?
Parker told The Daily News.
The kid punched me in the eye first and as a reflex he got hit back.
I knew it was on camera, Parker, 59, said.
If it was intentional, I would have taken him to another room and beaten the snot out of him.
Perhaps Parker is mistaking in anger for as a reflex ?
Because we ve all seen people lash out as a startled reflex followed by immediate remorse and concern for the person they hit.
Watching that video, his body language is less Oh crap!
I m sorry!
and more Yeah, you had that coming, punk!
If I were Parker, I would not be happy that video exists because he s going to have to convince a jury that he felt bad about throwing a full strength punch at a little kid.God luck with that, you prick.Featured image via WABC screen capture