On Friday, former President Bill Clinton encountered a rude protester during a campaign event in Bluffton, South Carolina and proved that he was not to be messed with.The protester, who claimed to be a Marine veteran, confronted Bill about his wife s involvement in the 2012 attack in Benghazi, Libya and was met with deafening boos from the 500-person crowd.
Still, Bill heard the army vet out, but unfortunately did not get the same respect when he tried to give him an answer.
Bill said: You listen to me, as I ve heard you.
I m not your commander-in-chief anymore, but if I were, I d tell you to be more polite.
Bill tried to be cordial, but as the unconfirmed vet repeatedly demanded to know if Hillary had lied about the four American lives that were lost during the attack, Clinton lost his patience and said: If you shut up and listen to my answer, I ll answer it.
His mind has been poisoned by lies, and he won t listen.
Even as the marine was being escorted out of the audience by security, he continued to shout at Bill Clinton, which encouraged another audience member to harass Bill in his place.
The second protester shouted over the crowd s boos , She lied to those families.
So all of those families are liars?
Then the crowd came to Bill s defense, telling the protester You re watching too many movies as she was also escorted out of the event.
Throughout the entire incident, the former president maintained his composure and remained calm while these two idiots tried to call his wife out and pathetically fail.After the protesters were gone, Bill defended Hillary and revealed that she lost many personal friends in the attack.
He said, You can imagine how she feels when people make these charges.
It s amazing that right-wingers just can t let Benghazi go.
There was nothing to be lied about or covered up, but so many conservatives will do anything to keep smearing Hillary s name because she s such a big threat to them.You can watch the event footage below: Featured image via screenshots