Maine has a very bad governor (thanks Tea Party movement!)
who just keeps getting worse.Republican Governor Paul LePage decided to take a cue from Donald Trump and spend the weekend mocking Indian people.
Apparently drawing upon his own experiences and warped by LePage s truly stunning level of racism, no doubt he lamented the fact that restaurants hire immigrants.
The problem, he said, was that he needs an interpreter to understand them.
And, he added, people from India are the worst ones.
This is right on the heels of Donald Trump s latest stab at xenophobic nationalism when at a rally he put on a stereotypical Indian accent to lament the fact that he had spoken to someone outside of America to inquire about his credit card.
(Part of his plan to Make America Great Again, is to bring telemarketing jobs back to the country.
A job nobody wants.)
The crowd ate it up.
So, it seems, did LePage, whom recently accused Ted Cruz of stabbing him in the back and is a big fan of Trump.LePage has made a name for himself as both a terrible governor in the traditional sense (he s been nearly impeached a number of times and is universally loathed by both Republicans and Democrats in the state legislature), and an unrepentant racist.
Already this year he made headlines for this astoundingly offensive rant: These are guys with the name D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty these types of guys they come from Connecticut and New York, they come up here, they sell their heroin, they go back home.
Incidentally, half the time they impregnate a young, white girl before they leave, which is a real sad thing because then we have another issue we have to deal with down the road.
He later said he didn t mean to say white girl.
Then a few days later, he said screw it and admitted that he did mean white girls but only because he knew that would make the story sound scarier.In a twisted way, LePage is probably relieved that his racism is back in the news.
His last act of infamy was blocking a bill that would provide life-saving drugs for opioid overdoses to addicts.
His reasoning: Why bother saving them?
They ll just overdose again.Paul LePage is the worst.Featured image via YouTube screengrab