Apparently Hillary s secret emails may contain information about a special relationship between Huma and Hillary.
Clinton insiders continue to come forward with allegations of Hillary s affairs with women during her marriage to Bill.
Why is it be a big deal for any of the men running for President to have an affair, but a non-issue when it comes to Hillary?
Why does Hillary get a pass on her alleged affair/s?
The top aide to Hillary Clinton says meeting Clinton was amazing, and that she remembers thinking about the now-Democrat presidential candidate, Oh my God, she s so beautiful and she s so little!
You know these things that happen in your life that just stick?
Huma Abedin said in a Call Your Girlfriend podcast interview.
She walked by and she shook my hand and our eyes connected and I just remember having this moment where I thought, Wow.
Call Your Girlfriend describes itself as a podcast for long-distance besties everywhere.
The podcast is hosted by Ann Friedman, a freelance journalist and New York magazine columnist, and Aminatou Sow, a digital strategist who was named one of Forbes 30 under 30 in tech fields.
The hosts said Abedin the vice chair of Clinton s presidential campaign was among the top 10 people they were hoping to interview for their podcast.
You re a big deal to young ladies, Sow complimented Abedin at the start of the interview.Abedin said she prefers to have a role that is behind the scenes.
I really work as part of a village, as my boss coined the phrase, she added.
It does take a village to support Hillary Clinton.
I am part of that village.
Asked about the first time she met Clinton, Abedin said in the fall of 1996 when she was 21 she was working in the former First Lady s office as an intern for her then-chief-of-staff Melanne Verveer.
Clinton, she said, was very good about meeting all the interns in her office.
But Abedin said it was in Little Rock after Bill Clinton was re-elected president that Hillary Clinton shook my hand and our eyes connected and I just remember having this moment where I thought wow, this is amazing.
And I just it just inspired me.
You know, I still remember the look on her face, she continued.
And it s funny, and she would probably be so annoyed that I say this, but I remember thinking, Oh my God, she s so beautiful and she s so little!
Via: Breitbart News