Donald Trump delivered his inaugural address on Friday, and it was predictably divisive and negative.Trump portrayed America as a weak, crime-ridden wasteland where everyone lives in poverty.
Mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities, rusted out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation.An education system flush with cash but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of all knowledge.And the crime and the gangs and the drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential.
This American carnage stops right here and stops right now.
He also attacked President Obama by proclaiming that January 20th, 2017, will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again, called our military depleted, and railed against America s crumbling infrastructure.Of course, Trump left out the fact that Republicans blocked infrastructure spending for eight years.
He also failed to point out that Republicans have been attacking education for years.Also, our military is the most funded military in the world, so claiming that it is depleted is a lie and an insult to our troops.It should be pointed out that Trump contributed to the shuttering of factories in this country by buying raw materials, like metals, from China to build his hotels with instead of buying it from American companies.Crime is also down, and millions of Americans were lifted from poverty over the last eight years because of programs like the Affordable Care Act and minimum wage hikes, both of which Trump opposes.
We stand at the birth of a new millennium, ready to unlock the mysteries of space, to free the earth from the miseries of disease, and to harness the energies, industries and technologies of tomorrow.
Trump failed to mention that he wants to cut NASA s budget too, supports the anti-vaccination movement, intends to double down on coal and oil to the detriment of clean energy, and is eliminating a government agency dedicated to researching and developing new technologies to reduce carbon dioxide in our atmosphere.Seriously, Trump s speech was totally contradictory to what his administration actually plans to do.The inaugural address was a shit show and Americans confirmed it on Twitter.That was like a bad liberal parody of a Republican president s inaugural address.
Jon Favreau (@jonfavs) January 20, 2017Interesting that @realDonaldTrump is making what sounds like a campaign speech rather than an Inaugural Address Gavin Esler (@gavinesler) January 20, 2017this is the most xenophobic inaugural address in US history Edward Luce (@EdwardGLuce) January 20, 2017Trump must have mixed up his speech texts.
He s giving a bitter, negative campaign stump speech, not a uniting, soaring inaugural address.
Nicholas Kristof (@NickKristof) January 20, 2017Our live analysis of Donald Trump s inaugural address https://t.co/pQC5zJLbHh pic.twitter.com/ZunVJle9tB The New York Times (@nytimes) January 20, 2017Don t know what I expected, but that may be the least presidential inaugural address on record.
#Inauguration Misty Murphy (@mothernerd) January 20, 2017.
@chucktodd: It was surprisingly divisive for an inaugural address That wasn t the kind of address intended to bring us all together Mark Murray (@mmurraypolitics) January 20, 2017I have read every Inaugural Address.
That was the worst.
Philip Collins (@PCollinsTimes) January 20, 2017Very little grace, very protectionist in every sense, very ominous in short, very Trumpian.
God help us all https://t.co/LzuRm9ghle DemfromTX (@DemfromTX) January 20, 2017#inauguraladdress: forgettable, in every way, except for the pit in the stomach.
Daryl Sneath (@D_Sneath) January 20, 2017President Trump makes his intentions very clear with his Inaugural address.
It s simply screw you, rest of the world!
#TrumpInauguration Bhargob Kakoty (@Bhargob) January 20, 2017Probably the shittest inaugural address in a long time Mitchell McCombe (@mitchellmc97) January 20, 2017Trump s Inaugural Address: A Disgraceful Deception https://t.co/r1sMeqjWjo Kip Spelling (@kip_spelling) January 20, 2017Yes, during the inaugural address it started to rain bc like the majority of us God is also crying Zoe (@notlowzo) January 20, 2017Donald Trump s speech was full of lies and promises that he won t keep.
He is already attacking education by putting a person who wants to destroy it in charge of the Education Department, and he is slashing the Transportation Department s budget.
Trump is also poised to strip healthcare from millions of Americans, which will make them poorer and more vulnerable.
Furthermore, Trump is cutting funds from the Justice Department s Civil Rights division, which will hurt people of color across the country.Donald Trump doesn t care about America.
He only cares about himself and what his gullible supporters think of him.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images