Another day, another GOP family values politician facing a potential sex scandal.
Alabama Governor Robert Bentley (R- Of Course) has been accused of having an affair with a woman he describes as his closest aide.
He has, however conceded that he did have conversations of a sexual nature with his Senior Political adviser, a woman by the name of Rebekah Mason.
When news of the scandal broke via a leaked tape Bentley, of course, went into damage control mode and is pretending to be remorseful: Since that time I have apologized to members of my family, to Mrs. Mason and her family and I apologized then for any conversations and behavior then that was inappropriate.
Today I want to apologize to the people of the state of Alabama and once again I want to apologize to my family.
I am truly sorry and I accept full responsibility.
Bentley then went on to re enforce the point that there was no physical affair with Mason: I want everyone to know though that I have never had a physical affair with Mrs. Mason.
I can assure the people of Alabama I have never done anything illegal.
I have never asked any member of my staff or any cabinet member to lie despite what the former ALEA secretary said today.
Physical affair or not, that tape was certainly scandalous enough on its own.
Here is just one part of that tape: When I m standing behind you, pull you in real close, put my hands on your breasts, put my hands under you .if we gonna do what we did the other day, we re gonna have to start locking the door.
(paraphrased)Here is audio of that tape:Well, that certainly sounds like it went beyond phone sex for sure, but of course there is no way to prove it.
Another piece of the scandal is even worse, because it involves the firing of Alabama Law Enforcement Secretary Spencer Collier.
Apparently, there was some kind of investigation into the possibility of criminal activity while Collier was in office.
Collier, however, tells a different story.
He seems to believe he was fired due to his warnings to Bentley regarding the sex scandal and other internal wrongdoing.
From Al.com:In denying he has done anything wrong as the state s top cop, Collier on Tuesday and again on Wednesday charged that his agency had come across evidence of an affair between Bentley and Mason, an affair Collier said he warned Bentley that could lead to criminal charges if Bentley were found to have misused state resources in carrying out the relationship.Collier also said Bentley placed him on leave a month ago and then fired him Tuesday because he refused an order by Bentley to lie about why Collier was not to provide a sworn statement to the attorney general s office involving personalities in the criminal case against House Speaker Mike Hubbard.Here is video of Collier speaking on the whole debacle:If this is true, Bentley SHOULD be charged, and Collier should be given his job back.
These GOP hypocrites need to ALL be voted out of office come November.
They are unfit to serve decent people everywhere.Time to resign, Gov.
Bentley.
You are a disgrace to the office you hold.Featured image via video screen capture