Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) got super candid when she made several bombshell statements about the future of Trump s time in the White House on MSNBC.In an interview, Waters flat-out said that there was a VERY good chance Trump will not last his full term (even though he for some reason thinks he s going to last 8 years like highly respected former President Barack Obama).
As new polls have just been released that report half of Americans want Trump to be impeached, Waters words are particularly timely.Waters made several legitimate, solid points when she explained why Trump wouldn t make it to the end of his term.
Waters mentioned Trump s numerous conflicts of interest, his controversial relationship with Russian leader Vladimir Putin, the disgusting anti-American statements he s made as well as the fact that the Republican Party is humiliated by him and will soon be tired of defending him.
Waters explained: I don t think so because he s not going to be there for four years.
He has disregarded constitutional questions.
We re still digging into his conflicts of interest.
His relationship to Putin and the Kremlin.
I think there s a lot there.
I don t intend to work with him or try to work with him, but I certainly don t intend for him to be around for four years.
A lot people don t want to hear this.
They re saying you re saying this, and you re talking about a president who has only been in office for a short period of time, but I do believe that he s vulnerable to impeachment.
Waters also predicted that if the GOP realizes that there is a true link between Putin and Trump (and it certainly seems like there is), the Republicans will likely seek to impeach him.Waters comments echo the predictions shared by many experts who have stated the likelihood of Trump being impeached.
There is just far too much corruption surrounding him, and we re glad that Waters finally said what many members of Congress would only dare to think.
You can watch her take down Trump below:Rep. Maxine Waters on Trump: I certainly don t intend for him to be around for 4 years I do be that he is vulnerable to impeachment.
pic.twitter.com/l33zcC8eFZ Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) February 9, 2017Featured image via screenshot and Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images