In a sorry attempt to smear the protester who allegedly threatened Trump with a sign in Reno, people are already working on creating fake connections for Austyn Crites, who didn t even have the gun the Trumpkins at the Reno rally claimed.
Since the original story disintegrated before their eyes, they re now turning to other, ahem, methods to show that Hillary was really behind Crites non-assassination attempt.Crites is a #NeverTrumper, but is still a Republican and has no ties to Hillary that anyone s aware of.
Nevertheless, Trump is among the first who tried to paint him as such by asking how much Hillary had paid him to protest at his rally.
That was just before he told his people to get Crites out of there.There are stories floating around claiming that, because Crites name has been mentioned on Wikileaks, he must be a paid Hillary shill.
Nobody could ever possibly show up on the joke that is Wikileaks if they re not connected to Hillary in some way, right?
Right.
Ha.
Crites name apparently does show up on Wikileaks, but even this right-wing site says they re not in connection with any of Podesta s emails.
Rather, he shows up in connection with a company called Stratfor, which is a global intelligence agency The Atlantic characterizes as just The Economist a week later and several hundred times more expensive.
Yet Wikileaks claims that Stratfor is a front for a global network of shadowy informants and spies, and even publishes its payment laundering scheme for those people.
The truth is that Stratfor is, more or less, a joke among analysts and others who actually know what s going on in the world, and their methods of information gathering are no different than journalistic methods.In other words, in reporting this, Wikileaks appears desperate to The Atlantic, and the people screaming SMOKING HILLARY GUN!!
because Crites name appears in a few Wikileaks dumps are just as pitifully desperate.They don t care, though.
They re going about their task of exposing the connection between Trump s assassin and Hillary with all the gleeful abandon there is in the badly misinformed, paranoid extremist.Mediaite also found evidence that these poor, desperate souls are creating fake profiles for Austyn Crites trying to link him to Hillary.
The one that they screencapped is a little too obvious to be serious because it lists him as a money launderer for the Clinton Foundation and a paid protester for the DNC.
It also claims he studied Civil Disobedience at the University of Chicago s Booth School of Business.They re getting just flat out ridiculous now, especially given that James Comey just crushed their hopes of any indictment against Hillary over new emails, and the Secret Service destroyed their dreams of proving that Hillary s hiring people to murder Donald Trump.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images