Bernie Sanders has won the Clark County Democratic Convention, which was held at the Cashman Center on Saturday.
Thousands of supporters showed up to support their chosen candidate.This win means that Bernie Sanders has won the Nevada caucus election.
The Vermont Senator and Democratic presidential candidate is likely to receive more pledged delegates from Nevada than was initially anticipated after Hillary Clinton won the state s first round of caucusing back in February.Only 23 of the state s 35 pledged delegates are bound to the results of the caucuses that happened in February.
The remaining 12 delegates will be given out proportionately in May, based on how many delegates show up who were selected on Saturday, during the Nevada s final convention.
Sanders campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, says that the results of the convention should net four pledged delegates more than Clinton.Sanders campaign manager Jeff Weaver says Sanders netted four Nevada delegates over Clinton from today's county conventions.
John Wagner (@WPJohnWagner) April 3, 2016Sanders had a huge turnout during the convention.
A total of 2,964 county delegates showed up to support Sanders.
Clinton had initially won 4,889 back in February but only 2,386 county delegates showed up to support the Former Madame Secretary at the convention.
More than half of Clinton s delegates either did not show up to the convention or decided to vote for Sanders.After realignment: 2,386 Clinton, 2,964 Sanders, & 7 uncommitted.
5,357 total.
Megan Messerly (@meganmesserly) April 3, 2016Despite the favorable results of the caucus, Weaver had some criticisms of how the convention was run.
He claims that the convention made Arizona look well-run and honest.
According to Weaver, the convention only had 6600 hundred seats were made available for the 8600 delegates who showed up.
To make matters worse, the police attempted to remove people standing in the overflow area.Campaign manager Jeff Weaver on Clark County, Nevada Democratic Convention: pic.twitter.com/XPDR4dRSAs Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) April 2, 2016Not having enough chairs at the convention is only a taste of the drama that surrounded the event.
If have not yet met your tolerance threshold for such things, you can read the details here.You can watch the moment that the final results of the convention were announced below.
Featured image by Ralph Freso/Getty Images