Turning up to a Trump rally to oppose the Republican front-runner can be life-threatening, as Trump and his rabid supporters have proven time after time that they re violent, mindless idiots that feel threatened by even the most peaceful of protesters.On Friday during an Oklahoma City rally, a man took a stand against the candidate by reminding everyone about the business mogul s racist rhetoric and connection to white supremacists.
The brave protester stood up and stuck his tongue out at Trump, proudly displaying the fact that he was wearing a homemade shirt that said KKK endorses Trump.
As Trump s devout minions noticed the protester s shirt, the audience was overcome with boos and shouting.
Trump walked over to the protester, practically stared the man down, then paced the stage while he waited for his security to take the protester away.
Meanwhile, Trump s fans chanted USA, USA, USA .
Once the man was gone, Trump took center stage once again and went on a rant against political correctness, saying it was to blame for the slow response to the protester.
You see, in the good old days, law enforcement acted a lot quicker than this!
A lot quicker.
In the good old days, they d rip him out of that seat so fast, but today everyone is politically correct.
Our country is going to hell for being politically correct.
Going to hell.
You can watch the confrontation below:Considering that earlier this week, Trump faced another protester and threatened to punch him in the face , this response from Trump was mild.Although Trump removed the protester, the man had hit on a part of Trump s campaign that the GOPer is now trying to distance himself from.
Just hours before this confrontation, Trump had brushed off the support of former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke, who d said not voting for Trump would be against Americans heritage.
Before quickly changing the subject, the front runner said, David Duke endorsed me?
OK, alright.
I disavow, OK?
While Trump may be trying to pretend that he s not a racist, it doesn t reverse the fact that Trump has retweeted various white supremacists and is a favorite candidate amongst the most racist people in our country.