We all love seeing Alec Baldwin portray Donald Trump on Saturday Night Live, but last night he pulled another ace out of his sleeve when he debuted as Bill O Reilly.
But it gets better Baldwin s Bill O Reilly interviews Baldwin s Donald Trump!As the sketch opens, O Reilly addresses his audience on a serious note: Hello, I m Bill O Reilly, and I hope you are having a terrific evening, The subject of tonight s Talking Points Memo is a scandal everyone s been talking about all week.
A scandal no one thought I would have the guts to address head on.
It appears he s going to address his sexual harassment issues, but instead he reveals his true talking point: The shocking allegations of the abuse of power that have been leveled against the Obama administration.
He then attempts to introduce Fox News reporter Laurie Dhue (one of the actual women who received a settlement after filing a sexual harassment suit).
After he s told that she no longer works for Fox News, O Reilly asks, Well, did she receive the check?
After speaking to another female reporter who, for obvious reasons, had to stay 500 yards away from him, he goes on to address the issues he s having with sponsors leaving the show.
As you know, 60 of our sponsors have pulled ads from the program, O Reilly said, before going to commercial break.
No word as to why yet.
We thank the following for sticking with us.
After that, fake ads played for dog cocaine and horse Cialis.
Now this is hard for me to discuss, but I also have been in the news this week, Baldwin s O Reilly said after the break.
Several women have come forward and accused me of offering them exciting opportunities here at Fox News.
Beyond that, the details are fuzzy, but one man was brave enough to come to my defense.
A man who is unimpeachable on all female issues.
Cue Donald Trump who did, in real life, come to O Reilly s defense this past week.
The two then appear together in split screen.
I actually see a lot of myself in you, Bill, Baldwin s Trump said, calling himself a big fan of the host.
O Reilly then thanks him for his support and asks him if he is actually familiar with the case.
I m more familiar with this case than, say, health care, but I didn t really look into it much, no.
I was busy being super presidential by bombing a bunch of shit.
Baldwin s O Reilly then thanked him for promoting Sexual Assault Awareness Month and Trump said: That s right, Bill.
It s a subject near and dear to my hands.
Watch the full video below:Featured image via video screenshot