Joe Scarborough is furious about Donald Trump and he is demanding that Republicans take action before our national security is seriously compromised.Throughout the 2016 campaign, Trump repeatedly criticized Hillary Clinton for using a personal server to read emails containing sensitive information.
But while Clinton s emails were never hacked or read by anyone but her, Trump is going around bragging about highly classified intelligence and sharing it with the Russians.As we learned on Monday, Trump literally leaked the intel during an Oval Office meeting with Russian officials last week, the same meeting that American journalists were barred from covering while Russia state media was given free access.In short, Trump is a hypocrite who put the security of our nation in jeopardy because he is incapable of keeping his mouth shut.So it was not a surprise that Joe Scarborough, a former Republican congressman, exploded in anger on Tuesday morning over what should be considered yet another Russia scandal.The Morning Joe host delivered a scathing statement denouncing Trump and called upon the current Republicans in Congress to hold him accountable instead of cowardly ignoring a major breach of protocol.
It s not enough for Mitch McConnell and conservative talk show hosts to simply attack the lamestream media or Nancy Pelosi, Scarborough said.
Americans will not buy that.
That s a cowardly act, and it s intended to hold onto as much of the audience that they can hold onto without embracing Trump.
At this point, if you do not call him out for risking American lives and doing things that most intel people I spoke with last night said will lead to the death of Americans in the future or lead to the death of critical allies in this counterinsurgency battle against ISIS, then you are doing a grave disservice to your voters or to your listeners or to the United States of America.
There is no middle ground here anymore there just isn t. This is about national security in the United States of America.
Indeed, Trump s blabbing put an asset at risk, one who is familiar with the inner workings of ISIS, a terrorist organization that wants to kill Americans.According to the Washington Post,Trump s disclosures jeopardized a critical source of intelligence on the Islamic State.The information the president relayed had been provided by a U.S. partner through an intelligence-sharing arrangement considered so sensitive that details have been withheld from allies and tightly restricted even within the U.S. government, officials said.The partner had not given the United States permission to share the material with Russia, and officials said Trump s decision to do so endangers cooperation from an ally that has access to the inner workings of the Islamic State.As a candidate, Trump claimed that he would protect this country from ISIS, but by handing out classified information like it s candy, he just put our nation at serious risk and violated the trust of an asset, who is also now in serious jeopardy, which means our ability to get good intel on ISIS is compromised.In the end, Scarborough noted that Donald Trump just keeps getting worse.
Here s the problem, the arc of this narrative keeps getting worse.
People on the inside say he keeps getting worse, mentally keeps getting worse.
This is not, unfortunately, a learning curve this is a man in decline.
Here s the video via VidMe.It s time for Republicans to admit that they screwed up by supporting Donald Trump.
It s time for them to oust this administration and schedule a new election so that the American people can put someone in the White House who is competent and not Putin s puppet.
This farce has gone on long enough and American lives are more in danger the longer Trump remains in office.Featured image via screenshot