Trump is not the only U.S. leader in Europe right now.
Former President Obama is also there, and he met with German chancellor Angela Merkel before the big NATO summit.
Merkel is up for re-election, and Obama gave her a strong endorsement, which made her Christian Democratic base happy.
Unlike Trump, Obama remains very popular in Germany.And Politico, in covering this particular story, decided to throw a bit of shade in Trump s direction over Obama s meeting.
Their headline for the story reads: Merkel meets popular US president before seeing Trump.
That was the caption on their tweet of the story as well:Merkel meets popular U.S. president before seeing @realDonaldTrump https://t.co/eQ6endyszF via @POLITICOEurope pic.twitter.com/s55txBKAQn POLITICO (@politico) May 25, 2017Seriously, Politico did that.
And it s hilarious in light of the fact that Merkel and Obama continue to have a very strong relationship, while she really just can t stand Donald Trump.
Obama received a warm welcome, and the two of them discussed the lessons of the Berlin Wall while in front of tens of thousands of cheering Germans at the 250-year old Brandenburg Gate.
Trump, however, was greeted curtly and coolly in Brussels barely two hours later.Against the backdrop of the Brandenburg Gate, which survived WWII despite much of the rest of Berlin being destroyed, Obama himself threw a little shade at Trump over his isolationist, America First ideas: In this new world we live in, we can t isolate ourselves.
We can t hide behind a wall.
He also took aim at Trump for being a narcissistic prick: If I become so convinced that I m always right, the logical conclusion of that often ends up being great cruelty and great violence.
In Brussels, Trump yelled at our allies again, claiming they aren t paying their fair share of defense expenses for NATO.
Trump believes that our NATO allies are shoving their expenses off on us, and doesn t understand the treaty well enough to know that s not how it works.So Politico decided to demonstrate what Germany or at least Angela Merkel thinks about Obama versus what she thinks about Trump.
Trump is ridiculous, and it s clear that at least some of our allies wish we still had Obama in office.Featured image by Stefan Rousseau Pool via Getty Images