The domestic terror group, Antifa, has been around for a while, but since Donald Trump s inauguration in January, they ve become more visible and increasingly more violent.
Well, good news for Americans who support violent, masked, molotov cocktail throwing, ax and hammer-wielding punks, who run through major cities in packs, busting out windows, setting fire to vehicles, and pretty much destroying anything or anyone in their path, as a way to show their resistance to a Donald Trump presidency, Walmart now offers a line of Antifa apparel for you.
If you re struggling to find the perfect gift for your violent, snot-nosed, anti-Trump student, or unemployed basement dweller in your family this holiday season, you can find it online at Walmart.
Walmart is selling Antifa clothing that will [allow you to] express yourself inside the opposition to the ideology, organizations, governments, and people from the far right (fascism).
The mega-retailer is offering at least 13 different sweatshirts made in Mexico of 100% COTTON for all-day comfort promoting the group whose activities were formally classified by the Obama Administration as domestic terrorist violence as early as April 2016, according to Politico, despite the group s efforts to downplay this determination.
Antifa, or Anti-Fascist Action, is an informal grouping of communist, anarchist, and other far-left street gangs.
Drawing inspiration from the German Communist Party s street fighters of the 1930s, the modern movement grew out of the European far-left punk scene in the 1980s.
These unapologetically violent bands of leftists were largely unknown in the United States until recent years, when America s post-Occupy Wall Street far-left began adopting the name.This (anti-Trump) video provides a window into the violent Antifa group and how they destroy other people s property while running from cops and calling for them to be killed.
Listen to Antifa chanting: AK47 put the cops in piggy heaven on the streets of Washington DC during Donald Trump s inauguration at about the 1:20-minute mark.
Watch what happens to the young Trump supporter who tries to speak reasonably with the Antifa terrorists about how using violence is not the answer, as he puts out a fire started by the terror group at the 9:20-minute mark:Antifa is well known for dozens of violent crimes against people they consider fascists on both sides of the Atlantic.
Just remember to keep creating a better world, the clothing advertisements encourage.This glorification of Antifa was mirrored Friday by the New York Times, which published a fashion style guide for the group: practical advice on how to dress for a riot.
In their guide, the Times explains why a uniform look is needed, from Breitbart News s Charlie Nash: These defensive methods work only if there are enough black-clad others nearby.
A single person in all black and multiple face masks is an eye grabber.
Finally, the Times claimed that dressing in black militant gear and concealing your face forms an emotional connection with other rioters.
Tactical considerations aside, it s this emotional connection with other members of the bloc that many practitioners highlight the most in interviews, they proclaimed.
It s why soldiers and police have uniforms.
Walmart has come under previous criticism for selling Black Lives Matter shirts and other items.
Following a request from the national Fraternal Order of Police, the retail giant eventually removed one of the items last December, shirts that said Bulletproof, but refused to remove the rest.As with the Black Lives Matter paraphernalia, the Antifa products are being sold by a third party manufacturer, in this case, Tee Bangers, on Walmart s website.
Breitbart