As we all know, Republican presidential nominee went to Mexico last week in an attempt to look presidential.
While on the surface it may have seemed that he succeeded at first, we soon learned that this was not the case.
When asked about whether or not he and President Enrique Pena Nieto discussed payment for Trump s infamous border wall, Trump lied, and President Pena Nieta called him on it via Twitter.
There s that, and we saw a tale of two Trumps that day, as when the real estate tycoon returned to the United States to do a rally in Arizona, he went right back to his hardline stance with a vengeance so much so, in fact, that the Republican National Committee dropped plans to praise Trump because the speech was so hateful.Well, to hear Trump tell it, one event eclipses those mishaps to make Trump s trip a roaring success: the fact that one of the organizing officials of the trip from Mexico was just fired.
Trump said Wednesday evening during NBC s Commander-in-Chief forum: We ve been badly hurt and if you look at the aftermath today, the people who arranged the trip in Mexico have been forced out of government.
That s how well we did, and that s how well we have to do.
No, Mr. Trump, this is not an indicator that your trip was a success; quite the opposite, in fact.
The official who was forced out of office, Finance Minister Luis Videgaray, left because the Mexican people have witnessed the appalling disrespect Trump has leveled at them throughout his travesty of a presidential campaign, and they did not want him in their country.
Videgaray was a main champion of the Trump visit, and therefore it is damage control with the population of that country who are rightfully outraged that sparked this person s removal from office.
That is the opposite of success.Then again, it s Trump, and therefore he can t help twisting the facts to make himself look good.
So, no surprise there.
The trip wasn t a success; in fact, it was clearly anything but.Featured image via by Alex Wong/Getty Images