What is the one thing that might actually scare Donald Trump?
That s right the prospect of releasing his tax returns has him terrified.
The mere thought of making them public, just as every single presidential candidate in recent memory has done, is more abhorrent to him than his sexual obsession with his daughter is to the rest of us.
But unfortunately for The Donald, he may not have a choice in the matter if Senate Democrats have their way.The Connecticut Mirror reports that Senators Chris Murphy and Ron Wyden have come up with a solution to Trump s nonsensical refusal to be honest with the American people about his taxes something even George W. Bush was able to accomplish:Partnering with fellow Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Murphy on Thursday pressed for votes for a bill that would require all presidential candidates from major parties to make public their tax returns within two weeks of their parties national conventions.
The effort is part of a renewed Democratic campaign over Trump s tax filings.In keeping his tax returns under wraps, Murphy said Trump is violating a 40-year-standard of campaign transparency and may even be running for president to change tax laws that benefit his companies.
This is an extraordinary moment in which the candidate may be seeking the presidency to protect his investments, Murphy says of his effort.What is Trump hiding?
Many people are saying he has made substantial donations to NAMBLA the North American Man-Boy Love Association he does not want to become public.
While this is a long-shot, as the organization is not actually tax exempt and would not show up on Trump s tax returns, it is clear that he fears their release.
In any case, the Presidential Tax Transparency Act would let the public know all of Trump s dirty little tax secrets he desperately wants to keep hidden.In fact, it would force the FEC to post candidates returns on the official website for all to see anytime they wish if the candidate did not voluntarily disclose them within two weeks of their party s national conventions.So far the bill only has five co-sponsors, including Tim Kaine, but the idea seems popular.Not only would this be a great idea, but it would lead to the most hilariously humiliating concession speech one can imagine.Featured image via Getty Images/Brian Bianco