While most of the free world, including the majority of Americans, are horrified by Donald Trump s order banning Muslims, there is one group of individuals very excited for it Islamic Jihad.Trump s order only proves to cement their theory to those they are trying to recruit that the United States hates Islam.
It is a theory that holds no basis in reality, but Trump is playing right into their hands.According to The Washington Post: Comments posted to pro-Islamic State social media accounts predicted that President Trump s executive order would persuade American Muslims to side with the extremists.
One posting hailed the U.S. president as the best caller to Islam, while others predicted that Trump would soon launch a new war in the Middle East.Further: [Islamic State leader Abu Bakr] al-Baghdadi has the right to come out and inform Trump that banning Muslims from entering America is a blessed ban, said one posting to a pro-Islamic State channel on Telegram, a social-media platform.
The writer compared the executive order to the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, which Islamic militant leaders at the time hailed as a blessed invasion that ignited anti-Western fervor across the Islamic world.
With former CIA official Robert Richer, who served as deputy chief of the agency s Operations Directorate during the George W. Bush administration, saying: This was a win for jihadists and other anti-U.S. forces.
It fuels the belief out there that Americans are anti-Islam.
Otherwise, it accomplishes nothing, because the ones we are most concerned about can still get to the United States.
Trump s order is purely dangerous political posturing to not only the United States but the world.
It does nothing to combat the threat of Islamic extremism and only serves to help ISIS and other extremist jihad groups to recruit.
Trump made the order without going through the proper channels of advice, and apparently it wasn t even discussed with his Secretary of Homeland Security.Trump is proving to be the danger we all knew he would be before getting elected (by Electoral College only) and hopefully, Congress will take the proper actions to stop him at every turn.Featured Photo by Andrew Harrer Pool/Getty Images