It s been a couple days since the first presidential debate, but the results are finally in, and it s not looking too great for one of the two candidates, especially in regards to the women vote.According to the new post-debate NBC News/SurveyMonkey poll: Twenty-seven percent of likely women voters said the debate made them think worse of Trump.
Meanwhile, nearly a third, or 30 percent, said their opinion of Clinton had improved, compared to 22 percent of men.
Women were also far likelier to say Clinton won the debate, by a 10-point margin over men.
It seems as if a lot of women are really put off by Donald Trump s temperament and not only how he treated Hillary Clinton during the debate, but women in general throughout his lifetime.One woman who was interviewed for the poll even admitted that she voted for Trump in the primary, but now is leaning towards Hillary Clinton.71-year-old Joan Hume of Fairfield, Ohio said: I m undecided, but I m leaning more towards Hillary than I ever have before because of the debate.
Apparently, she wanted to see Washington shaken up, but she admitted: There s a side of him that s scary to me that I m seeing more of.
I thought maybe he would change when he got the nomination, but he s getting worse.
And while there are some women who apparently still think Trump is an acceptable choice despite his blatant misogyny and insults towards women, it s really not looking too great for the reality TV host considering if you want to win the White House, you need to win over women.
And right now, it looks like Trump is losing while Hillary is gaining.The poll states this of independent women voters: Trump fared particularly poorly with independent women when they were asked if he has the temperament and personality to serve.
Eighty percent of independent female voters said he does not.
By contrast, independent women voters were more evenly split on Clinton s personality and temperament, with 51 percent saying she met the test for president.
Yikes.
That doesn t look so good for Mr. Trump.Here s the thing: Trump has a very, very long history of being absolutely horrible towards women, and the women who hadn t caught on yet are now finally starting to see the bigger picture.
Chances are, more will jump ship to Clinton s side before November.
At least if they re aware of the reality of the situation.Here s the take from MSNBC on the topic of women and Trump:Featured Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images