A week after the election, much of the country is still devastated that a reality television star was chosen over an overqualified candidate to be the next President of the United States.
While many of us are still mourning and in shock that Donald Trump was able to win the election, President Barack Obama addressed frustrated Democrats yesterday to remind them that there s still more work to be done and we can t give up now.Obama began by saying how proud he was of Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton for her history-making race.
He said: We did not get the results we wanted, but we took a step in shattering a barrier that s still there.
And little girls and little boys are going to have a different sense of the possible thanks to her nomination and her candidacy.
Then, Obama got right down to business.
Obama said it was fine to go through the emotions of dealing with Trump s win, but we must not lose focus and stop fighting for what we believe in.
He said: That doesn t mean we don t hurt for what was an unexpected loss.
Expected losses are hard enough; unexpected ones are just worse.
And that s okay.
I was telling my team: You re allowed to mope for a week and a half.
Maybe two if you really need it.
But after that, we ve got to brush ourselves off and get back to work.
We need to come together and focus on a way ahead.
This call was organized by the Democratic National Committee, and was held right after Obama gave his first post-election press conference.
Obama had said that although Democrats might have better ideas, they were failing to resonate with voters and this was something that needed to change.
Obama said: Given population distribution across the country, we have to compete everywhere.
We have to show up everywhere.
The president urged Democrats to get back to work and move forward in a way that s consistent with who we are as Democrats.
He said: It means that we re listening to each other, we re reflecting, we re asking tough questions, we re respectful of different points of view, we re basing our decisions on facts and careful analysis.
We re taking the long view and we re strategizing.And then, Obama said something that inspired us all and gave us hope that he would still play a major role in America s future after he leaves the White House: The bottom line is: I don t know about y all, but I m still fired up and I m still ready to go.
You can watch Obama s inspiring speech below:Featured image via Pool/Getty Images