Megyn Kelly s new book, Settle For More, seems to have Trump s fans in a tizzy.
She doesn t paint him in a very flattering light, so obviously the book is politically motivated and she had no business writing it, let alone selling it on Amazon.
Trump s trolls decided they would try to shut down, or at least depress, sales, and Amazon decided they weren t having it at all.
Amazon pulled a ton of one-star reviews that all came from a pro-Trump Reddit.
While USAToday reported early this morning that 17 percent of the reviews on Kelly s book were one-stars at one point, 76 percent of those reviews were one star ratings.
There were more than 400 reviews total that came in over the weekend, which means that a lot of people were trying to kill the book s sales because they love Trump and despise anyone who makes him look even slightly less than godlike.These reviews consisted of things like: This woman is not a journalist She is an attention seeker She is also paid by the DNC to report fake stories that have no truth to them whatsoever.
Megyn Kelly is getting paid by the DNC to report fake news?
Not hardly, but unfortunately, Amazon does not require anyone to source their accusations when they leave a bad review.Another said: Wow get over yourself.
Your [sic] not that good!
Your treatment of Newt and Trump was inexcusable.
The Reddit forum that many of these reviews came from is simply called, The_Donald, and now they re mad that they ve been shut down.
One man known only as Tim from MD whined that over 120 one-star reviews had been deleted.
Then he said: Are we living in a free country anymore?
Trump is president, but she wrote the book certain that Clinton would win.
Now the book and her shows and advertisers are getting boycotted.
So apparently her attorneys have called to get negative reviews deleted.
And they succeeded.
I m shocked.
Because that s totally what happened.
While the publisher, Harper-Collins, did contact Amazon over the fact that these reviews had all the hallmarks of an orchestrated effort to discredit Megyn Kelly, her own attorneys may or may not have contacted Amazon as well.
Whether that s what happened or not, Trump fans have shown, time and again, that they re willing to force issues over to their liking simply by banding together.It s ridiculous.
While it s true that Amazon has likely deleted reviews it shouldn t have all across their site, the problem of fake reviews designed to artificially inflate someone s reputation, or destroy something that a certain group of people can t stand (like conservatives who can t stand anything remotely resembling facts) was a major one and they did have to do something about it.
When many of the reviews are all coming from one source, that s a pretty good sign that they aren t genuine reviews.
Plus, Amazon didn t delete all of the negative reviews just the ones that were obviously part of a concerted effort by Trump trolls to destroy Megyn Kelly and her book.If anyone needs to get over it, they do.
As the one reviewer above stated, Trump won, so what s the deal here?
Grow up, guys.Featured image by Jemal Countess via Getty Images