It s no secret that Donald Trump has some kind of boy crush on Russian president Vladimir Putin.
Despite the fact that Putin is nothing more than a dictator and a murderer, Trump can t seem to find anything but good things to say about the guy.
Well, one CNN guest has absolutely had it with Trump on that front.
CNN host Poppy Harlow mentioned the fact that Putin had tweeted about how the Democrats were handling the unexpected November loss, repeating what Trump had tweeted: Vladimir Putin said today about Hillary and the Dems, in my opinion, it s humiliating.
Harlow then went on to say: He is agreeing with Vladimir Putin on anything.
It s just surprising given the Russian relations, Russian hacking.
But that he is talking still about winning the election, the election he won, at a time, I mean, how many geopolitical issues were there in the last week that he could be tweeting about?
That s when Harlow s guest, Washington Examiner Senior Correspondent David Drucker, piped up: Vladimir Putin is basically a quasi-dictator, and he s busy lecturing an American candidate about how to lose with dignity?
When the man doesn t actually win or doesn t actually lose?
He just runs the show.
He s the last person!
I think you can make an argument here in the U.S. we can all talk about whether Clinton and her team post-election can handle their loss properly.
Some believe they have and some believe they haven t. Vladimir Putin is the last person on earth that should be lecturing our candidates about how to lose with dignity.
Drucker is right.
Putin knows nothing of losing with dignity, because he just murders and jails people who go against him.
He s not a real president, as we have in this nation.
No matter how much I might have disliked any number of presidents we ve had, I certainly recognized and respected the fact that they were duly elected, and certainly none of them killed people to keep themselves in power.
These are things Putin knows nothing about.
He would never be able to handle losing, which is why he will never allow it to happen.
In the end, the biggest bullies are the real cowards, and yes that stretches to Vladimir Putin.
That makes it all the more alarming that the incoming United States president admires such a man on this grand scale.Watch the video below:[ad3media campaign= 1400 ]Featured image via video screen capture