On Monday, Sarah Silverman released a hilarious video that encourages non-voters to get off the couch and participate in this election no matter which candidate they re voting for but especially if they re supporting Bernie Sanders.The video has gone viral, shared tens of thousands of times over a few hours.
For five hilarious minutes, Silverman cracks jokes in her signature style while making a truly convincing case for the Vermont senator.
The comedian and actress stressed how much every vote in this particular election counted when she joked: If you vote or not, that s not my business, I m not your mommy.
Though like your mommy, I have a completely full bush It s important that you treat your vote as something valuable, because it is.
It s so valuable.
Candidates literally spend billions of dollars trying to get your vote.
Confessing that she was a fan of Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton before Sanders began his presidential campaign, Silverman said: I m a feminist.
Democratic woman president?
Yes please!
Silverman gives an amazing explanation of how nearly every politician s campaign works when she talks about the contributions from corporations and banks that Clinton has been known for.
Silverman said that although she was aware that Clinton was taking those contribution, she thought it was just what candidates must do to win in the era of Citizens United.
Every politician takes money from big money, ever since it was made legal through Citizens United.
It s legalized corruption.
If all the other ball players are taking steroids, you have to take steroids too to compete, right?
Of course, this was all until Sanders, who Silverman describes as a giant fuck you to the above-the-law billionaire class , came onto the scene.
Once Bernie entered the race, Silverman said that she became a diehard supporter because he was the only candidate to refuse big money and run a different campaign.
Silverman clarified, I m not against Hillary.
I ve just met someone I have more in common with.
Instead, Sanders ran a truly unconventional campaign that was built on the donations of millions of everyday Americans.
Silverman explained: This man is running for president on a platform that is just a giant fuck-you to the above-the-law billionaire class who have been controlling government policy with their money, and not paying a nickel in taxes through government loopholes they secure with said money.
Without taking a penny from Super PACs, corporations, or self-interest groups, Bernie Sanders raised over $100 million from over 5 million individual donations, donations from human people, averaging $27 each.
He proved that what is right can also be possible.
Silverman said that Sanders refusal to follow suit and take big money donations like every other candidate has proven that Citizens United is not a necessary evil.
It s just evil.
Also tackling the socialist title that has plagued Sanders campaign, Silverman said: He s a Democrat.
He just believes that people who don t have the same advantages as you and me should be given the same advantages as you and me.
Silverman assured Americans that they can still fulfill their dreams of becoming rich assholes, it s just that your fellow hard-working citizens don t have to feed their children cat food in order for you to do it.
In closing, Silverman begged non-voters to contribute to the election and go against the status quo by casting their vote.
She said: Don t be sucked into a rigged American Dream ponzi scheme that was never intended to include you.
Vote.
You can watch the video below: Featured image via screenshot