Judge Neil Gorsuch, Trump s nominee for the Supreme Court seat that s sat empty since Antonin Scalia died a year ago, has joined the ranks of the outraged when it comes to Trump and his damned Twitter account.
Gorsuch is specifically upset with Trump s statements about the judiciary branch of the government, and told Sen. Richard Blumenthal that in a meeting earlier today: He said very specifically that they were demoralizing and disheartening and he characterized them very specifically that way, Blumenthal said of Gorsuch.
I said they were more than disheartening and I said to him that he has an obligation to make his views clear to the American people, so they understand how abhorrent or unacceptable President Trump s attacks on the judiciary are.
For someone who sits on the bench, it s easy to see how that would be disheartening and demoralizing.
An attack doesn t have to be directed squarely at you to still feel like an attack.
Trump attacked our entire judicial system and insulted all the judges within it when he went off on Judge Robart for blocking his Muslim ban.
Gorsuch told Sen. Chuck Schumer as much, too.The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals has been hearing arguments on the legality of the Muslim ban, and apparently the three judges hearing that case gave the lawyers arguing a really tough time.
They grilled the lawyer representing the Department of Justice on whether the government even had evidence that the seven countries named in the ban are connected to terrorism.It s a pointed question because Saudi Arabia, which does have strong ties to terrorism and has exported terrorism to the U.S., is not included in the ban.
When August Flentje refused to answer it and instead tried again to argue that Trump has broad authority in this area, Judge Michelle Friedland asked: Are you arguing then that the President s decision in that regard is unreviewable (by a court)?
Flentje s answer was yes.
In other words, Flentje argues that Trump can do what s necessary in his judgement to keep the U.S. safe, and a court can t say otherwise.
That s part of what Robart weighed when he blocked the Muslim ban.
The 9th Circuit will end up on Trump s radar here pretty quickly if they uphold Robart s decision.Then Gorsuch will have to determine whether he wants to serve on a court that s going to be the subject of juvenile attacks when they rule in a way that Trump doesn t like.
His confirmation hearing is coming up.
He probably won t withdraw, but he has a lot to think about right now.Read more:Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images