One thing about Donald Trump that s so appealing to Americans is that he s not a professional politician and speaks with great honesty.
The canned answers of his opponents leave the people feeling empty and uninspired.
Jeb Bush is just one example of the snooze fest that happens when a professional politician speaks.
However you feel about Teflon Don , he s one of a kind and passionate about America.
I have to say I really look forward to his press conferences.
New polls from NBC News and Marist out from New Hampshire and Iowa show that, once again, billionaire Donald Trump is winning a fight with yet another career politician: This time, former Florida Gov.
Jeb Bush.Bush s position in the all-important first-in-the-nation caucus state of Iowa has deteriorated significantly as he s at a meager 6 percent in a poll with a margin of error of 5.5 percent meaning he s slipping further and further into the lower tiers of candidates there.
Trump, meanwhile, is at 29 percent in Iowa while fellow political outsider and conservative Dr. Ben Carson is at 22 percent.
The two of them Carson and Trump combined earn 51 percent of the GOP primary electorate in Iowa.
Throw in Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard CEO who s also never held political office and is currently at 5 percent, and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX)96% another political outsider who s only held office for two years in the U.S. Senate and is at 4 percent and a strong majority of 60 percent of Iowa Republicans support a political outsider and not another Bush.The concurrently released poll from the first-in-the-nation primary state of New Hampshire shows a nearly identical trend there.
New Hampshire, which unlike Iowa is a pretty much must-win-state for Bush to be able to get the nomination or at least to get it early enough that there isn t a convention feud later, clearly doesn t like him.
Trump tops the field again with 28 percent.
Carson is in third with 11 percent.
Bush has slipped back to fourth place with just 8 percent a six-point slide from when Trump got in the race in July, when the same pollsters found him at 14 percent an embarrassingly low number for the guy who is supposed to the frontrunner at this point.
What s more, in second place just ahead of Carson but still quite a ways behind Trump is Ohio Gov.
John Kasich with 12 percent.
That means Kasich another establishment-minded Republican candidate has moved Bush out of the way and essentially blown past him as the new establishment frontrunner.These new polling results come amid a renewed fight between Trump and Bush over the past couple weeks.
Trump has always had his guns trained on not just Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, but Bush as the GOP establishment frontrunner, since the beginning of the race.
He hit Bush in his announcement speech and has repeatedly aggressively criticized the former governor as weak, lacking leadership skills and part of the same old tired political class that s led America down a horrendous path it s currently on.Bush initially tried to challenge Trump at the beginning of the race as having been too tough on illegal immigrants along with a whole host of other politicians and cultural figures who pushed back on Trump s announcement speech but Trump not only survived through that firestorm he came out of it in a much stronger position.
So, as other candidates attempted to attack Trump over the past couple months after that, Bush has remained relatively quiet about the front-running billionaire.
Trump, meanwhile, has systematically destructed once-promising GOP candidates one at a time as they ve come knocking at his door.
One by one, Trump has essentially ended chances at the GOP nomination for former Texas Gov.
Rick Perry and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC)47% and deflated candidacies of Wisconsin Gov.
Scott Walker, Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY)93% and Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL)80%.
Read more: Breitbart News