In a perfect democracy, there would be multiple viable parties to choose candidates from.
Each one would have to work hard and strive for our vote, and each one would have an equal chance at winning.
Unfortunately, because of the way election laws and funding are currently in the United States, we re pretty much stuck with a two-party system and any third-party vote goes to help one of the two major parties.Think Ralph Nader in 2000 and how his votes in Florida gave us George W. Bush.
Well, Nader and the Supreme Court.It s imperfect, but until laws are changed, it is what it is.
No amount of whining or sitting elections out is going to change that.
What we need are legislators willing to change the laws, but that s never going to happen if people keep having hissy fits.This year s election is so critical not just for the nation, but the entire world.
A Donald Trump presidency would be catastrophic on so many levels, both with domestic and foreign policy.Reminding everyone how important this election is, and how a third-party vote will give us a President Trump, is none other than the legendary writer/producer and creator of Family Guy, Seth MacFarlane.MacFarlane tweeted: Remember: This November you can help elect President Donald Trump just by voting for Gary Johnson or Jill Stein!
Happy Election Year!
Remember: This November you can help elect President Donald Trump just by voting for Gary Johnson or Jill Stein!
Happy Election Year!
Seth MacFarlane (@SethMacFarlane) September 19, 2016His sarcasm is more a terrifying wake-up call than just witty banter on the Twitter machine.Does this mean you shouldn t vote for Stein or Johnson?
No, of course not.
However, it needs to be brought to people s attention that their vote for a third party isn t actually going to put their candidate into office, but rather have the possibility of ushering in the apocalypse with Trump.A conscience vote does not do anyone any good with a Fascist in the White House, and it goes much deeper than just feeling good about yourself on election day.So, do what you do.
That s your freedom to do so, but remember the unintended consequences of that vote and what will be in store for the entire world.Featured Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images