Former RNC chair Michael Steele did not mince words when he called out Donald Trump on Saturday.Rep.
John Lewis, who nearly sacrificed his life fighting for voting rights in Selma, Alabama during the Civil Right Movement, remarked on Friday during an interview with Chuck Todd that he doesn t believe Trump is a legitimate president.
I believe in trying to work with people, Lewis said.
It will be hard.
It s going to be very difficult.
I don t see this president-elect as a legitimate president.
Of course, Trump s ego couldn t handle the truth so he lashed out in the most embarrassing way.Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results.
All talk, talk, talk no action or results.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2017Trump literally accused Lewis of being all talk and no action.
Unlike Trump, Lewis has spent his life fighting for equality and civil rights.
He was even nearly beaten to death for it.
Meanwhile, Trump has never fought for a damn thing except for himself.Trump s attack on Lewis also coincides with Martin Luther King Day weekend, which made his attack all the more offensive, and Steele put Trump in his place during an appearance on MSNBC.
Number one, don t tweet that.
Number two, don t go there.
And number three, try and step back and appreciate what s being said, Steele advised Trump.
You can put it in a partisan context.
You know, He s a Democrat, I m a Republican.
He s black, I m white.
It goes to what you were just saying, what s undergirding that?
Steele then reminded Trump that if he really wants to heal wounds and bridge divides that he needs to include African-Americans.
Instead, Trump just widened that divide by attacking a civil rights legend.
If you re looking to heal and bridge, and bring people of America together, well, we re a part of that.
As black folks, we re apart of that.
Our expectation is, not only will you attempt that same effort that you would to white folks in other communities, but that you will show respect for our leadership, those who do represent our interests.
You know, the tweet is unnecessary.
John Lewis has a walk that very few people in this country, least of all Donald Trump, have ever walked.
In short, Lewis walked the walk while Trump does nothing but talk.Here s the video via Twitter.
John Lewis has a walk that very few people in this country, least of all Donald Trump, have ever walked.
#AMJoy https://t.co/L3WtLNCfNs Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) January 14, 2017Donald Trump has done nothing but divide this nation since his ugly campaign began.
And despite his pathetic calls for unity, Trump has done nothing to deserve the respect he and Republicans are demanding from the American people.
And his tweets only undermine him more every day as he continues to insult and attack people who criticize him.Featured image via screenshot