What s happening in Flint, Michigan is absolutely criminal.
Not only is the water there poisoned and leading to children being diagnosed with lead poisoning, but those who are ultimately responsible are not being held accountable.
This needs to change, and several people have been calling for Michigan Governor Rick Snyder (R) to resign.
He s the man who put the officials in charge who changed Flint s water source.
Officials who insisted the water was safe to drink.One person stepping up and demanding accountability is actor/producer Matt Damon.
He has been involved, for a while now, in providing clean water around the globe and co-founded Water.org with Gary White.
Both men are absolutely appalled over whats happening in Flint, because as they work hard to bring fresh water to third world nations, people in our own nation are going without clean water.
Damon told the Daily Beast: At the very least he should resign!
At the very least.
Listen, everybody s entitled to a fair trial in the United States of America, but that man should get one.
And soon.
That s just my personal opinion In terms of the work that we do, to see it happening in Flint, every parent in America feels it on a visceral, deep level, because we ask the question, What if that was my child?
It s unconscionable in Flint, and it s unconscionable that 663 million people around the world are dealing with that every day in the developing world.
Those are the communities we interact with, and that s the mission of Water.org: to end that suffering for those children, and those parents.
Gary White continued that sentiment, saying: We should be outraged about Flint.
That shouldn t be happening in the United States, but it also drives home the point that it shouldn t be happening anywhere.
Flint is the reality for many developing countries around the world.
And knowing that race and socioeconomic status definitely play a role in how certain communities are treated not only here in the United States, especially in Flint, but also around the world, Damon added: My sincere hope for our country and our world is that this greater connectivity is going to lead to a greater empathy and an awakening to the plight of our fellow citizens.
These are huge systemic injustices we re talking about that hopefully everybody is waking up to.
The question then is, what do we do about it?
It will be interesting to see where we go from here.
The first step in doing that will be to hold those responsible for this outrageous neglectful act accountable, starting with Gov.
Snyder.
Many, including filmmaker Michael Moore are even calling for his arrest, and asking for a thorough investigation.
Unfortunately, for the people of Flint, MI, the damage is done.
The harm from the lead poisoning is irreversible.
Justice must be served, and resources allocated to the people of that community to deal with any and all ongoing issues.
We also need to make sure this never ever happens again, not only in Flint, but everywhere in this nation and around the globe.Featured image: Wikimedia/Wikimedia