For years now, sane-minded individuals in Congress alongside President Obama have tried to enact common sense gun reform.
And now, where those in Congress have failed to act, the president is doing what he can to tighten up existing gun laws and make sure those who shouldn t have guns don t get them.With Obama s bold actions to curb the epidemic of gun violence comes very open dissent from several members of Congress.
They ve chosen to side with insanity and the gun lobby over common sense.One member of Congress, Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) decided to opt so far away from common sense, that he tweeted this regarding President Obama s actions: Under Obama s executive gun-control action, your doctor may report you to the FBI.
Under Obama's executive gun-control action, your doctor may report you to the FBI.
https://t.co/MOEAmQdgDa John Fleming (@RepFleming) January 5, 2016Now, any human being with even the slightest bit of common sense would agree that doctors better damn well be reporting mentally ill patients to the FBI.Furthermore, the disclosure to the FBI from doctors restricts any form of revealing what a diagnosis would be, so privacy is still protected while safety concerns still reached.
Starting next month, no legal repercussions can effect the doctors doing their due diligence.
The new rule states: The disclosure is restricted to limited demographic and certain other information needed for NICS purposes.
Chief executive of the mental health rights advocate Mental Health America, Paul Gionfriddo, even stated: That could be a barn door opened quite wide if an administration really wanted to open it, and they didn t. The administration has taken great pain to try to clarify that there is very limited information that would be reported only within a very limited group.
All of this begs the question, who would be against such measures?
And clearly Rep. Fleming raised his hand in enthusiastic agreement that doctors should keep their mouths shut and the mentally ill should have easy access to firearms.This goes directly against the NRA and right-wing aphorism that it s not the gun, it s the person.
However, if you re against keeping guns out of the hands of the mentally ill, then you aren t following through with that logic, and now Rep. Fleming can forevermore be labeled a dangerous hypocrite.Thank goodness President Obama is in power and is taking action when Congress refuses to do their job.
It is the job of those who represent us to act in our best interest.
However, so many choose to act in the best interest of those lining their pockets with lobbying dollars, and in this case, it s the gun lobby.Shame on you, Rep. Fleming.Featured image via Flickr