Racists and Confederate flag worshipers may be celebrating now but Director Rob Reiner just informed them that Trump s victory will be their last.On Monday while promoting his film LBJ, which follows President Lyndon Johnson s effort to secure passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Reiner declared that Trump represents the final battle of the Civil War, which ended in 1865 and was responsible for the deaths of 600,000 Americans.
The way I look at it, if you are trying to take an overview the holistic approach we are fighting the last big major battle of the Civil War, Reiner said, pointing out that people are protesting Trump for the opposite reason why Southerners protested Abraham Lincoln when he was elected in 1860.
There s only been two times in the history of America where upon the election of a president, the people en masse took to the streets, Reiner said.
One was Abraham Lincoln, and the other was Donald Trump.
And for obviously, you know, 180-degree different reasons, but both based on race.
Indeed, the South hated Lincoln because they wanted to keep the institution of slavery alive.
Anti-Trump protesters hate Trump because they don t want America to be a haven for racists who want to go back to the days of slavery or segregation.Millions of Americans fear that Trump will reign over an era where racism and discrimination is acceptable and is propped up by the federal government.
To me, the scariest part of what we saw with Donald Trump was not understanding how much racism still existed in this country, Reiner continued.
It was kind of papered over for a while.
I mean, we had the Civil Rights Act, we had the Voting Rights Act and then in the 70s we had All in the Family started shining a light on racial unrest.
And then we had a lot of enormous success by African-Americans in the media, in the news and so on.
And then culminating with an African American president.
So we thought, OK, we are moving in the right direction, everything is moving.
But what we didn t realize that this undercurrent of racism was still there, virulent and kind of down, suppressed.
But now the media is largely to blame for giving Donald Trump and his deplorable supporters a platform to bring the cause of white supremacists into the mainstream.
And Reiner blasted them for it.
I don t know if you saw Leslie Stahl last night, Reiner said in reference to Trump s 60 Minutes interview on Sunday.
It s embarrassing.
It is embarrassing that somebody who has a national platform would softball this moron.
He s a moron.
And that man is in the White House now, and the press normalized him.
They normalized him for a long, long time.
And that s a disgrace.
Trump may have won by getting more electoral votes, but he lost the popular vote which is a sign that Democrats can take back the White House from Trump and the Republicans in 2020 with a candidate who is more popular and has less baggage.
Someone like Elizabeth Warren or Kamala Harris.So while Trump and the GOP and their racists voters will enjoy their victory now, they have ignited a progressive wave of rage that is going to bury them and drag them kicking and screaming into the future America deserves.Featured Image: Wikimedia