If you re keeping track, so far, Donald Trump has screwed up two military missions, his plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, his tax plan, and now, Easter.Just days before Christians most holy day, the Trump White House still is not preoared for the annual easter egg hunt on the White House lawn.
While this is symbolic, it s a big symbol.The Sunday tradition is 138 years old, and as Melinda Bates, the Easter event organizer behind President Bill Clinton s eight times as host, told The New York Times, It s the single most high-profile event that takes place at the White House each year, and the White House and the first lady are judged on how well they put it on.
From her perspective, the outcome of the event is an indication of the administration s inner workings.Source: SalonFor this we can blame the First Lady no, not the First Daughter First Lady Melania.
First Ladies have a job in this country and the Easter Egg hunt is one of them.
Her refusal to leave her comfy home in Manhattan means thousands of children, including children of military personnel, could go without a favorite Easter pasttime.Some even took to reaching out to the FLOTUS on the one place they know they can find her husband: Twitter:@FLOTUS @realDonaldTrump @POTUS @MELANIATRUMP @IvankaTrump FYI manufacturing deadlines for the Easter eggs are near.
Please reach out!
pic.twitter.com/D78YqWVPBi Wells Wood Turning (@WellsTurning) February 20, 2017This event is actually pretty huge.
About 4,000 school children receive tickets every year and about 3,000 children of military familes.
They may all be disappointed.
Unfortunately, the Trump administration has not reached out about it, Ashley Broadway-Mack, the president of the American Military Partner Association told the Times.
Congress members have also not been contacted about tickets for their constituents.Because of this, the event has been cut in half and they ll only have about 1/5th of the security, and it s all because the First Lady has been neglegent in even staffing her office.
She named a chief of staff and social secretary in early February but has yet to announce a director for the Visitors Office, normally the crucial player in the daunting execution of the event, the Times reported.The vacant positions are cause for concern, according to Bates.
I m really concerned for the Trump people.
This thing is all hands on deck.
In her defense, this is all par for the course for the Trump administration, whose motto just seems to be wing it and hope things don t get too screwed up.
Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images.