We ve been over and over the reasons why the Washington Redskins name is not offensive.
Even the American Indians who had everything to do with the name are saying it s a name to be proud of.
Our most recent article on this topic:JUDGE ORDERS CANCELLATION OF REDSKINS TRADEMARK REGISTRATION WASHINGTON REDSKIN S NEW STADIUM CONSTRUCTION HELD HOSTAGE BY PETTY OBAMA ADMINISTRATIONWhen the U.S. Labor Department s Center for Civil Rights wanted to celebrate its accomplishments last week, its managers threw the staff a football-themed tailgate party in the office parking lot.The invite, distributed across the agency s official email system, had all the rah-rah of a playoff game.
Celebrate a championship year!
it declared.Even the regular office dress policy was relaxed.
Show your team spirit and wear your favorite sports or club theme gear and come and enjoy tailgating favorites like dips, chili, chicken wings, nachos and more game-day grub, the invite said.There was only stipulation: no Washington Redskins jerseys, paraphernalia or memorabilia.
It has been respectfully requested that employees voluntarily refrain from wearing clothing or other sports memorabilia that promote Washington D.C. s professional football team, the Redskins, or other teams that use names, characters, etc.
that may portray American Indians or other cultures in a derogatory manner, an asterisk-marked note at the bottom of the invitation reader.An email from an office manager went into greater detail about the ban, while forwarding the invite.
While I recognize the varying opinions surrounding the name of the Washington D.C. football team, as a civil rights office, I ask us all to be particularly sensitive to names, symbols, etc., that may be considered offensive based on race, ethnicity, sex, etc., the email read.
Please join me in promoting an inclusive environment for all employees and be conscientious about how we represent our values as a civil rights office.
The email included links to statements opposing the Redskins logo from the Society of American Indian Government Employees (SAIGE) and Blacks in Government (BIG).The two federal worker groups have asked the Office of Personnel Management to ban the use of the Redskins name or paraphernalia at government activities and to conduct training to educate federal workers on why the team name is racially offensive.
Read more: Washington Times