On Monday, Donald Trump gave interviews to reporters on his plane, and naturally the subject of the presidential debates against Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton came up.
As expected, Trump s responses were nothing short of moronic and unbelievable, and show just how unprepared Trump is to be president.As reporters threw different questions at Trump about his strategy to beat Clinton, Trump gave responses that should have his supporters worried sick about how he s going to win.
Trump told reporters that he is barely doing any debate prep in stark contrast to most presidential candidates.
With a dismissive attitude, the ignorant business mogul revealed that he has not planned on mock debates, saying he d pretty much rather wing it: I ve seen people do so much prep work when they get out there, they can t speak.
I ve seen that.
Then when Trump was asked if he d actually follow through with the debates, Trump gave an even more surprising answer.Trump said, As of this moment, yeah a strange response for sure.
And then he said that only hurricanes and natural disasters would stop him from debating the former Secretary of State.
He said: I expect to do all three.
I look forward to the debates.
You can watch this bizarre interview below:Hilariously, Trump also said that it was his obligation to debate Clinton and that presidential debates are an important element of what we re doing.
He said: I did them with the other, you know, the other cases.
We had, I guess 11 debates.
Obviously, I did well in the debates.
Obviously, according to the polls, the online polls they did right after the debates.
And I think I m doing the same thing.
Trump must have forgotten that he actually skipped one of the GOP debates, and also backed out of the debate that he challenged Vermont senator Bernie Sanders to.
And there are ongoing rumors that Trump is going to somehow find an excuse to back out of his debates with Clinton as well.
Judging from this interview alone, we would not be surprised.Featured image is a screenshot