Lindsey Graham (R-SC) has been going through an existential crisis over the future of his party for a while especially now that he s backed presidential candidate Ted Cruz, who he doesn t believe will stand a chance against Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton.On Thursday, Graham went on MSNBC to share his thoughts on the election and make a prediction that truly showed how depressed Graham has become over the whole thing.
The former presidential candidate reluctantly said that Republicans would probably lose the 2016 election due to the extremely unlikeable qualities of leading GOP candidates Donald Trump and Ted Cruz.Graham had backed Cruz after ending his own campaign for GOP nomination, clearly because the Texas senator was the only alternative to Trump.
Graham made it perfectly clear that the endorsement didn t mean that he suddenly liked Cruz, a man that Graham previously joked about murdering.
Not to mention that earlier this year, Graham said that choosing between Trump and Cruz was like being shot or poisoned.
What does it really matter?
But now, Graham seems like he s accepted the fact that the Democrats have the 2016 race in the bag.
During the interview, he said: We can lose in 2016 and probably will.
Here s my concern.
Trump gets wiped out.
Ted, I don t know if he can beat Hillary Clinton or not but at least we ve got a fighting chance.If Trump is the standard-bearer, it s not about 2016, it s about losing the heart and soul of the conservative movement.
I m not going to stand behind a guy that gets David Duke s support.
You can watch Graham resign all hope in the video below:.
@LindseyGrahamSC: We could lose in 2016 and we probably will https://t.co/QJOaVYjtV6 Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) March 24, 2016The reason Graham is feeling so hopeless is that he knows he s right.
Both Trump and Cruz are extremely polarizing to voters.
Ted Cruz has an uncanny ability to make most people whether politicians, family members or voting Americans hate him (which might be linked to the way his face looks).
And Trump tends to turn many GOP voters off for his vulgar language and constant flip-flopping on policies.
Both of these candidates are an embarrassment to the Republican party, and Graham was dead-on when he said it would take generations for the GOP to recover from this election cycle.
Featured image via Getty Images