The Republican Party and the Trump White House just suffered a humiliating defeat as their signature campaign promise to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act immediately couldn t even pass a vote on the House floor with a large GOP majority.Of course, this is a major victory for Democrats, and a political disaster for Republicans.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer wasted no time in blasting the Republicans inability to govern, and the Trump White House in particular.
In a press conference shortly after the bill failed, Schumer said: The TrumpCare bill failed because of two traits that have plagued the Trump presidency since he took office: incompetence and broken promises.
I have never seen an administration as incompetent as the one occupying the White House.
Schumer went on to openly mock Trump s own claim to fame deal-making.
He snarked, so much for the art of the deal, referencing Trump s famous book.
Schumer went on to say that Trumpcare should be abandoned in favor of fixing Obamacare: They should depart the field, cut their losses and abandon their quixotic attempt to pass TrumpCare once and for all.
Schumer then reminded Republicans that he is willing to work with them on a fix for Obamacare, but will not be helping them to repeal anything to do with the Affordable Care Act: What we said, we stand by.
If they would denounce repeal .then we ll work with them on improving [ObamaCare] and making it better.
But they can t continue to want to repeal.
Schumer went on to remind everyone of a truth that we see every time Republicans are in power: They are very good at criticizing.
They re not very good at governing.
Schumer also waved away Trump s pathetic attempt to blame Democrats for the bill s failure, and even went so far as to essentially call him a liar: It s another one of his big tall tales.
He couldn t get enough Republican votes, he never tried to reach out to Democrats in any way.
So the blame falls with president trump and with the Republicans.
Indeed.
They know how to be against things, how to try and pass draconian laws that are way outside the mainstream opinion of the American people.
But when it comes to actually making lives better and making government work, they haven t a clue.Thanks for your candor, Senator Schumer.
We need voices like yours right now.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images