The Supreme Court sided with women on freedom and the right to choose today with their ruling on Texas restrictive abortion law.
In a 5-3 ruling, they said that the arguments that the law merely protects women s health are actually just a substantial burden on women seeking abortions.
Since abortion is a constitutional right, no matter what the right-wing thinks, Texas law was deemed unconstitutional.Justice Stephen Breyer wrote the majority opinion, and said: There was no significant health-related problem that the new law helped to cure.
We agree with the District Court that the surgical-center requirement, like the admitting-privileges requirement, provides few, if any, health benefits for women, poses a substantial obstacle to women seeking abortions, and constitutes an undue burden on their constitutional right to do so.
He was joined by Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Anthony Kennedy, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan.
Ginsburg wrote her own concurring opinion, where she said: When a State severely limits access to safe and legal procedures, women in desperate circumstances may resort to unlicensed rogue practitioners, faute de mieux, at great risk to their health and safety.
The 5-3 decision isn t just a victory for women and women s rights, but it also shows that the Supreme Court would have struck the law down even with a full bench, and a staunch conservative in Scalia s place.
Anybody who thinks that a full bench would have stopped this is living in Fantasyland.Even so, anti-choice conservatives are still busy trying to convince people that the law actually protected women.
Nothing could be further from the truth, which is why this case went all the way to the Supreme Court.
Yet, here they are, in all their righteous anger about it, claiming that today is a sad day for women all across the country.Texas Governor Greg Abbott said (all emphasis from The New York Times): The decision erodes states lawmaking authority to safeguard the health and safety of women, and subjects more innocent life to being lost.
Texas goal is to protect innocent life while ensuring the highest health and safety standards for women.
Senator John Cornyn seems to agree with that.
He said: Today s ruling sets a dangerous precedent for states like Texas, which the Constitution makes clear should be free to pass laws that are in the best interests of our citizens.
Common-sense requirements that abortion clinics be held to the same standards as other medical facilities put the health of the patient first, and today s decision is a step back in protecting the well-being of mothers across our state.
You two just keep telling yourselves that.Of course, National Right To Life can always be counted on to provide total ignorance masquerading as sane, logical reasoning on the issue of abortion: How shabby are these abortion clinics that they cannot meet the minimum standards other outpatient surgical centers are required to meet, and just how bad are these abortionists that they can t get admitting privileges at a local hospital?
As we saw with Kermit Gosnell in Philadelphia, it s clear that the lucrative abortion industry is not able or willing to police itself and allows filthy, deplorable conditions to go unchecked.
Ah, yes, invoking Kermit Gosnell, as if he s the norm and abortion doctors who are actually ethical and competent are the exception.
Don t they have more evidence than that?
Oh, wait, no they don t. One case is more than enough for them to think they can justify destroying a woman s right to choose what she does with her own body.Over on Twitter, many are celebrating this as the victory for women it is, but there are still anti-choicers rearing their ugly heads with the same twisted logic, spinning this as a grave mistake endangering thousands of women.
Or they re making the argument that this violates states rights (or doing both).
Oh please:Hillary should pick Kermit Gosnell as her running mate > #SCOTUS #Texas #Abortion #Trump pic.twitter.com/2KRpiFIMHx EagleGraphs (@EagleGraphs) June 27, 2016 This means more women will die as the clinics which are not to code, will continue to send women to the emergency https://t.co/sFC0tMHD6X ConservTexas (@ConservTexas) June 27, 2016Thanks to today s Supreme Court ruling, women in Texas can say goodbye to health inspections and safety standards at their abortion clinics.
Petre Pan (@petr3pan) June 27, 2016 I don t understand why anyone would support the overturn of the Texas abortion laws.
Even pro choice activists.
K (@Kristenn_2) June 27, 2016The next woman in Texas that dies due to complications of an abortion will probably die without proper medical care, or care in time.
Jacob Botzman (@JacobBotzman) June 27, 2016 Supreme Court Strikes Down Texas Abortion Law, Dooms Women to Substandard Care https://t.co/OIQJvJXOQK Sue Merriner (@treetopangel) June 27, 2016#SCOTUS strikes down Texas law designed to provide essential protections for health & safety of women inside the state s abortion facilities Steve Daines (@SteveDaines) June 27, 2016 How can #aca be constitutional but the #texas law on #abortion clinicals not be?
#SCOTUS @Scotus Andrew Holter MPA (@AndrewHolter) June 27, 2016Score one for women, and zero for misogynistic dung weasels who want to tell women what they can and cannot do with their bodies.
It was never about protecting women, or even about protecting unborn babies.
The anti-choice, anti-woman argument has always, and will always be, about controlling women and their sexuality.
The Supreme Court saw right through it.Featured image by Pete Marovich/Getty Images