After the news broke that Trump is going to be investigated for possible obstruction of justice, Trump has taken to Twitter to whine.After his first couples of tweets claiming to be part of the single greatest witch hunt in American political history, he s now whining about Hillary isn t being investigated over dealing with the Russians.Why is that Hillary Clintons family and Dems dealings with Russia are not looked at, but my non-dealings are?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 15, 2017Trump tweeted: Why is that Hillary Clintons family and Dems dealings with Russia are not looked at, but my non-dealings are?Crooked H destroyed phones w/ hammer, 'bleached' emails, & had husband meet w/AG days before she was cleared- & they talk about obstruction?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 15, 2017He then followed up with: Crooked H destroyed phones w/ hammer, bleached emails, & had husband meet w/AG days before she was cleared- & they talk about obstruction?
What are we, five?
Only kids try to throw others under the bus.
Clinton was investigated, remember?
She was investigated where you personally insisted she was investigated her private email server and anything and everything tied to it.Why are you pointing your finger at everyone else?
What do you have to hide if it s untrue?This isn t about Hillary Clinton.
This is about how the U.S. intelligence community concluded last year that Russia interfered in the presidential election to help Trump defeat Clinton.This is about investigating Russian election meddling, including possible ties between Trump s team and Russia.This is about possible obstruction of justice by firing former FBI Director James Comey.It has nothing to do with Hillary Clinton or anyone else for that matter.
If anyone else needs to be investigated, it will happen.
As of right now, the spotlight falls on you.
You deny everything with the Russians and fired Comey who was going to look into it.
What did you expect was going to happen?You are the President of the United States, Mr. Trump.
You need to start acting like an adult and learn to face reality.
Not whine and point fingers at everyone else.Featured image via MANDEL NGAN,BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/Getty Images