As President Obama rolls out executive orders to strengthen background checks to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people, two New York lawmakers are being threatened by the NRA for introducing legislation to restrict the sale of ammunition.The bill would limit the amount of ammo a person can purchase over a 90-day stretch and would ban gun dealers from selling ammunition to people who are prohibited from buying guns.The NRA, of course, is not happy about the legislation sponsored by state Senator Roxanne Persaud and Assemblywoman Jo Anne Simon.But rather than simply protest, the thugs over at the National Rifle Association decided to pull a Sarah Palin and make targets of the pair of Democrats.In a Twitter post by NRA publication America s 1st Freedom, pictures of both lawmakers are taped to a board as if someone is preparing to use their images for target practice.
To make it even more threatening, bullets are scattered next to the pictures in what appears to be an attempt to incite gun violence against them.
Underneath the image, the NRA whines that the measure is a ridiculous anti-gun scheme.
Here s a screenshot of the tweet.The image comes nearly five years to the day a congresswoman was forced to leave office after being attacked by a deranged shooter.As you ll recall, former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords was nearly assassinated by a gunman after Sarah Palin posted a map on Facebook with crosshair symbols denoting which lawmakers conservatives should target because of their support of gun control.
The map, which still exists on Palin s Facebook page, served as a hit list and caused national outrage.
Giffords survived despite being shot in the head, but the NRA seems to be hoping for a repeat.Persaud and Simon blasted the image as an attempt to intimidate and threaten them into bowing down to gun nuts.
I think it is irresponsible in the times that we are living in to place a target around someone, Persaud told the Daily News.
By placing someone s picture with bullets next to them, you are playing on the fears of people.
The New York Daily News reports:Persaud said the picture has the potential to cause harm because you don t know if a psycho who is upset about the proposal will react to something like that.Simon slammed the tweet for inciting gun nuts, who have been sending threats to both lawmakers since they proposed the legislation last month.
They are clearly trying to be intimidating and it is not working, she said.The Daily News also reports that NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio and Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams condemned the tweet as well.Once again, the NRA is acting like the terrorist organization it has become over the years.
Even a veiled threat against lawmakers is outrageous and should not be tolerated in this country.
If a gun nut does end up taking a shot at Persaud or Simon, the blame should be placed squarely on the NRA.Featured Image: Raw Story