It seems that every time we turn around, there s a new layer to the con that is Donald Trump.
While we re in the thick of the presidential election, Trump is being accused of conning people with his Trump University.
He s conning people with email fundraising scams.
He s even conning people with his fake knowledge of the Constitution and his fake Christianity.If you re still not sure about that last one (after all, he is the favorite for Evangelicals), it s been uncovered that his spiritual advisor is herself a con artist who scams people out of $1,144 each in a Harry Potter inspired scam.Trump credits Pastor Paula White with his conversion to Christianity.
The two have a lot in common.
White is an attractive blonde (likely just his type) and at 50, she, like Trump, has been married three times.
She s known Trump for a long time and has claimed that his conversion came long before Trump began his run for office.
I can absolutely tell you that Mr. Trump has a relationship with God.
He is a Christian, he accepts Jesus as his Lord and savior, White said in a rare interview with POLITICO, reflecting on a relationship with the New York tycoon that has now spanned more than 14 years.She won t elaborate, though, on the exact moment Trump decided to accept Jesus as his Lord and savior.
One thing that might attract him to her brand of Christianity is her belief that God wants people to be wealthy.
She happily flaunts her wealth, even if much of it is ill gotten.
She s in trouble with the IRS, she has business troubles and she s common tabloid fodder.White, an author and TV personality who at one time had millions in the bank, has had financial challenges of her own.
In the early 2000s, the ministry s spending habits drew scrutiny first from the IRS, and then from Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), who launched a congressional probe.
The probe was eventually dropped (her ministry didn t fully respond to congressional inquiries, according to reports at the time).
The Tampa-based church that she and her ex-husband founded and led which began to fall apart after their 2007 divorce declared bankruptcy in 2014, though by then she was leading another church, in Orlando.One specific scam, though, came straight from the Harry Potter novels.
For the low, low price of $1,144, White will sell her rubes a resurrection seed, much like Harry Potter s resurrection stone.
The resurrection seed promises to resurrect the dead.
The $1,144 figure came from John 11:44, which says, I believe for resurrection life.
Preaching the story of Lazarus who Jesus resurrected from the dead in John 11:38-44, White promised believers in a video appeal that if they would sow the seed and have faith, she believed deliverance would come.
I don t know what is dead.
I don t know what the enemy sent a death to.
I don t know what decision that caused death to come upon whatever the situation you re facing, but I do know that God has sent me to you to bring resurrection life.
To tell you that I believe that as we put our faith together before Easter Sunday on March 27, there s gonna be resurrection life in your life, said White.
The grave clothes are coming off, she continued.
Whatever residue of death.
Whatever residue is holding you back, it is coming off.
Source: Christian PostSo, in other words, Paula White is just as much of a con artist as Donald Trump himself is.
Birds of a feather.Featured image via Pastor Paula White s website and John Sommers II at Getty Images.