On Friday, during an interview on Real Time with Bill Maher, Libertarian Party presidential nominee Gary Johnson sat down with Bill Maher and tried to make the case for a libertarian president.
Maher brutally mocked Johnson and his party s economic beliefs saying that their economic theory is like Mad Max takes your gas and you die.
The Libertarian Party would be more aptly named the Neoliberalist Party.
They are both radically conservative on economic issues and radically liberal on social issues.
As Maher described their views on government saying, I saw your convention.
The vision of government is somewhere between colonial Williamsburg and Atlantis.
Both Maher and Johnson cited examples of some of the more unorthodox views some people hold within the Libertarian Party.
Johnson mentioned that he was booed at the Libertarian National Convention for stating that he believes that people should be required to get a driver s license in order for them to be able to drive.
Maher mentions that the question as to whether 5-year-olds should be able to purchase heroin legally is a major debate between libertarians.As nutty as that sounds, Johnson insists that here are extremists and loons in every party, while posturing himself as an alternative to people who might be voting for the presumptive Republican nominee this November.
Johnson insists that he is the best non-major party candidate to take votes away from Trump due to his predicted status of being on the ballot in all fifty states in the 2016 general election.The left has fervently hoped that a serious non-major candidate would run against Trump in the general election.
With Republicans begrudgingly beginning to rally around Trump, it is looking more unlikely that either a serious or protest candidate backing a moderately conservative agenda will come from the Republican Party.Whether Johnson can run a serious campaign in November will mostly be determined by whether he can make his way into the debates.
Candidates must be polling at 15% in order to make it into the debates.
Johnson is currently polling at 10%.
It s unlikely that Johnson is going to reach the necessary threshold to join the debates.
That being said, he does seem like a reasonable choice for conservatives who cannot hold their nose to vote for Hillary Clinton and are adamantly a part of the #NeverTrump camp.You can watch the interview below, in full.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2rK3IDl8RY8Featured image from video screenshot