Last week, the Washington Post reported that after almost 4 decades, 4 women came forward to claim they were sexually abused as teenagers, by Roy Moore, the GOP candidate for senator in Alabama.
Nevermind that for 4 decades they were silent about Moore s alleged behavior, and that only 4 weeks before the election, they all decided to confide in the leftist rag who just endorsed Moore s Democrat opponent, Doug Ross for Senate.It was discovered last week that one of the women who accused Roy Moore of sexual misconduct actually worked for Hillary as a signer at her campaign, openly trashed President Trump and pushed her friends to support Moore s opponent on her personal Facebook page.Meanwhile, the allegations against Moore continue to unravel, as the mother of Leigh Corfman, who says that Alabama Senatorial Candidate Roy Moore tried to engage in a sexual encounter with her when she was 14, told Breitbart News that the Washington Post worked to convince her daughter to give an interview about the allegations against Moore.
Speaking by phone to Breitbart News on Saturday, Corfman s mother, Nancy Wells, 71, further stated that her daughter would not have come forward if it weren t for The Post reporter s alleged actions.Earlier on Sunday, Breitbart News reported that Corfman s mother contradicted a key detail of Corfman s story.
Speaking by phone to Breitbart News on Saturday, Wells said that her daughter did not have a phone in her bedroom during the period that Moore is reported to have allegedly called Corfman purportedly on Corfman s bedroom phone to arrange at least one encounter.The Washington Post cited Corfman as remembering that she provided Moore with her number when she was 14.
She said that she spoke to Moore from what she described as the phone in her bedroom.Today, the left got some very bad new about their hit job on Roy Moore it appears that polls show Alabama voters aren t buying it Breitbart News Two new polls demonstrate that GOP nominee for the U.S. Senate Judge Roy Moore remains unaffected entirely by smears in the Washington Post against him, and his lead before the Post piece on Thursday afternoon remains intact.
One of the polls, which were both provided by the pollster to Breitbart News exclusively on Saturday evening, was conducted on Thursday morning before the publication of the Post piece that afternoon.
The second one was conducted on Saturday evening.
Together, they show Judge Moore s lead over Democrat Doug Jones has been virtually unaffected since the Post story came out.The first survey, which was conducted entirely before noon local time on Thursday, shows Moore leading Jones by 50 percent to 39.2 percent with 10.8 percent undecided.
That survey of 1,354 likely voters in the upcoming Dec. 12 special election has a margin of error of 3.5 percent.The second survey, conducted Saturday evening two days after the Post piece hit, roiling Alabama s political scene shows Moore and Jones with about the exact same percentages as before.
Moore s position in this second poll is 49.8 percent meaning he only dropped 0.2 percent since the story hit and Jones has only picked up 0.4 percent to reach 39.6 percent total.
The second survey, which polled 1,536 likely voters with a margin of error of 3.3 percent, has 10.5 percent as undecided.
The polling between Thursday morning and Saturday showed far less movement than I originally expected, pollster John Wahl told Breitbart News.
The controversy surrounding the Washington Post article seems to have galvanized the support of both candidates, but not changed the actual percentages in a significant manner.
The Moore campaign has already weathered a considerable amount of political attacks during this campaign season, and I expect most of his lightest support to have blown off during these attacks.
His current support level is holding fairly steady.
Another liberal publication, The Hill, reported that Moore was losing in the polls to Jones after the hit piece on Moore was published in the Washington Post.The Hill -Democrat Doug Jones is leading Republican Roy Moore in Alabama s Senate race in the wake of explosive accusations of sexual misconduct against Moore, according to a new poll released Sunday.Forty-six percent of likely voters polled said they would vote for Jones, while 42 percent said they would vote for Moore, according to the Louisiana-based JMC Analytics and Polling.The survey was conducted on Nov. 9 and Nov. 11, after The Washington Post reported that a woman said Moore had initiated a sexual encounter with her in 1979, when she was 14 years old and he was 32.The RealClearPolitics poll has Moore and Jones tied.
The poll showing Moore losing to Jones was conducted by JMP, the same polling operation who gave us this hilariously inaccurate poll, only one week before the general election in 2016:We re gonna go out on a limb, and say that this so-called scandal involving Judge Roy Moore is going to backfire spectacularly on the left, and will ultimately only shine a spotlight on the hypocrisy of the Democrat Party, who ignored the sexual misconduct of former President Bill Clinton and his enabling wife, Hillary Clinton for decades.