Conservative talk radio, tv and websites are no friends of RINO Senator John McCain, and he knows it.
McCain used his moment he was given to shine on the Senate floor after being diagnosed with brain cancer, to excoriate conservatives who speak out against him on talk radio, TV and the internet.
For years, conservatives on social media have declared open season on RINO s (Republicans In Name Only) in DC.
like Senator s John McCain (R-AZ) and his close ally Lindsey Graham (R-SC).
In June 2015, candidate Hillary Clinton used her good working relationships with McCain and Graham as examples of how she can reach out across the aisle.McCain has been a thorn in the side of President Trump and has been openly antagonistic towards him since it became apparent Trump would be the Republican candidate for president.
Only one day after his surgery and diagnosis with brain cancer, Senator John McCain just couldn t help himself.
While millions of Americans were praying for his recovery, McCain took to Twitter to admonish President Trump over his decision to end a failed program that was supposed to train, fund and arm Syrians to fight Assad and ISIS.Tuesday on the Senate floor, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) gave a speech upon returning from Arizona after having an emergency craniotomy to remove a blood clot and a subsequent diagnosis of cancer.McCain cast the deciding vote to begin the health care debate and chided both sides for not being bipartisan over the last several years, saying, I voted for the motion to proceed to allow debate to continue and amendments to be offered.
I will not vote for this bill as it is today.
McCain said, I hope we can again rely on humility, on our need to cooperate, on our dependence on each other, to learn how to trust each other again, and by so doing, better serve the people who elected us.
Stop listening to the bombastic loudmouths on the radio, television and the internet.
To hell with them.
They don t want anything done for the public good.
Our incapacity is their livelihood.
Here s how conservative radio and tv host Mark Levin reacted to McCain s comments:Oh my.
I'm hurt to the core.
https://t.co/jfnssmz9RJ Mark R. Levin (@marklevinshow) July 26, 2017McCain went on to encourage his fellow Senators to get behind him and help find a way to fix the disastrous Obamacare, Our health care insurance system is a mess.
We all know it.
Those who support Obamacare and those who oppose it.
Something has to be done.
He added, We Republicans have looked for a way to end it and replace it with something else without paying a terrible political price.
We haven t found it yet.
And I m not sure we will.
All we have managed to do is make more popular a policy that wasn t very popular when we started trying to get rid of it.
I voted for the motion to proceed to allow debate to continue and amendments to be offered.
I will not vote for this bill as it is today.
It s a shell of a bill right now, we all know that.
I have changes urged by my state s governor that will need to be made before I support any bill.
I know the bill has to change substantially before you will support it.
Breitbart