With the death of a Supreme Court Justice many implications follow, including who will be their replacement.
After ultra-conservative Justice Antonin Scalia s death many are left wondering what will happen next, and others are trying to sway decision-making altogether.
Including Republicans who don t want President Obama to have the ability to pick who will be the nominee.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) wrote on Facebook just hours after Scalia passed away that The American people should have a voice in the selection of their next Supreme Court Justice.
Therefore, this vacancy should not be filled until we have a new president.
Of course, he s completely politicizing the vacancy, while also assuming the next president will be a Republican.Noticing this absolutely pathetic attempt to thwart President Obama s constitutional authority to nominate the next Supreme Court Justice was none other that Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren (D).
In her own statement released Sunday on Twitter, she said: Senator McConnell is right that the American people should have a voice in the selection of the next Supreme Court justice.
In fact, they did when President Obama won the 2012 election by five million votes.
Article II Section 2 of the Constitution says the president of the United States nominates justices to the Supreme Court, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
I can t find a clause that says except when there s a year left in the term of a Democratic president.The Senate GOP took an oath just like Democrats did.
Abandoning the duties they swore to uphold threatens the Constitution & our democracy.
Abandoning their Senate duties would also prove that all the Republican talk about loving the Constitution is just that empty talk.
And she s absolutely correct.
President Obama is granted, by the Constitution, the ability to select who he deems appropriate as a nominee to replace Justice Scalia.
What we are seeing right now is Republicans slip in to panic mode, because they are terrified that the replacement for their most conservative Justice in the Supreme Court has now fallen into the hands of Obama.The people more than showed their voice in who they want to have chosen as their Supreme Court Justices.
They did so in November of 2008 and again in November of 2012 with the election and reelection of President Obama.Featured image: Flickr