As Election Day approaches, the threat of violence and bloodshed is becoming more and more likely.So far, the threats of a violent coup against the federal government had only been coming from a few deplorable Trump supporters like Dan Bowman who told the Boston Globe last month that he is literally hoping that conservatives overthrow the federal government in the event that Trump loses to Hillary Clinton on November 8th.
If she s in office, I hope we can start a coup, he said.
She should be in prison or shot.
That s how I feel about it.
We re going to have a revolution and take them out of office if that s what it takes.
There s going to be a lot of bloodshed.
But that s what it s going to take I would do whatever I can for my country.
Many Trump supporters have echoed Bowman in one way or another in response to Trump s dubious claims that the election is rigged against him.And now things just escalated because right-wing militias are actively preparing to join such a movement should their fellow Trump supporters follow through on their threats.The Oathkeepers and Three Percent Security Force are right-wing militia groups that have been conducting training sessions in recent weeks in preparation for a violent rebellion if Donald Trump loses the election.Right-wing terrorist wannabe Chris Hill told Reuters that his militia group is training to save America.
This is the last chance to save America from ruin, Hill said.
I m surprised I was able to survive or suffer through eight years of Obama without literally going insane, but Hillary is going to be more of the same.
Hill further implied that his group will act to protect any so-called protesters who try to overthrow the government, which means shooting federal authorities who try to disarm them.
I will be there to render assistance to my fellow countrymen, and prevent them from being disarmed, and I will fight and I will kill and I may die in the process, Hill said.
We ve been building up for this, just like the Marines, he continued.
We are going to really train harder and try to increase our operational capabilities in the event that this is the day that we hoped would never come.
In other words, these Trump supporting militias are have literally been preparing to launch a terrorist attack against the United States if the election does not go their way.And it s even scarier because these gun nuts don t think they can be punished for their actions since the Bundy brothers and their fellow terrorists were acquitted by a jury in what is one of the worst miscarriages of justice in American history.
Now right-wing militias are only emboldened.
If the Bundys can seize a federal building and get away with it, maybe they think they can get away with overthrowing the federal government.These people are a threat to our democracy and our institutions and they should be arrested before Election Day to ensure public safety.
If Trump loses he needs to grow a pair and concede, because if he doesn t he should be charged and imprisoned for any blood that is spilled as a result of his refusal to do what every other losing presidential contender has done throughout American history.Featured Image: Spencer Platt/Getty Images