At a rally in Toledo, Ohio, Trump made his most frightening statement of this election cycle yet.
After comparing his tax plan to Hillary s, he boldly proclaimed: And just thinking to myself right now, we should just cancel the election and just give it to Trump, right?
What are we even having it for?
What are we having it for?Her policies are so bad.
Boy, do we have a big difference.
[emphasis mine]We should just cancel the election and install him as what?
President?
We all know he won t stay President for very long if we do that.
He wants to be installed as the first King of the United States.
Even if he were democratically elected in twelve days, he d probably try to make this the last election this country ever sees.Anybody who doesn t see that after what he just said is both blind and foolish.Oh wait, perhaps he was just joking, just being funny?
It s a very dangerous and inappropriate joke to make on the campaign trail, particularly for someone who has long since begun displaying fascist tendencies.Trump has fallen well behind Hillary across national polls, in battleground states, and even in a few deep red states like Arizona, Utah, Texas and Georgia.
They re in play for the first time in forever.
Trump s only hope may well be to simply be installed as the king, rather than elected to the White House by the people.We have people like former Congressman Joe Walsh calling for armed rebellion if Trump loses.
We have people like Rep. Jason Chaffetz promising years of investigations into Hillary if she s elected.
We have Trump himself calling for his supporters to intimidate voters at the polls in the name of ensuring that nobody votes who isn t legally allowed to, and claiming that there s already widespread voter fraud in Texas.He s incited his crowds toward violence, and he s undermining our democracy with his cries of unfairness, election stealing, and rigging.Now he says, We should just cancel the election and just give it to Trump.
That s the worst thing he can say as a presidential candidate in a democratic society.
The worst.
Featured image by Maddie McGarvey via Getty Images