Howard Dean, who famously dropped out of the 2004 presidential race for being too exuberant, knows a thing or two about being called crazy.
He s also rarely one to mince words, so when he characterizes the GOP frontrunner as a lunatic, well, people might want to listen.The 2016 election will go down in history for a number of things, not the least of which is that Republicans have nominated a narcissistic xenophobic billionaire as someone who s just like them.
But, it will also go down for being a year of anger.
People on both the right and the left are angry about politics as usual, for good reason.
Even some angry people on the left have vowed to vote for Trump because they see him as an outsider, or they are nihilists who want to tear everything down before building it back up.If you are a Trump voter, Dean has some choice words for you and they aren t exactly partisan.
Dean was in Ohio campaigning Senate candidate Ted Strickland.
Dean had some somewhat kind words about Ohio s Republican governor, John Kasich mostly because Kasich has refused to endorse Trump.
I disagree with your governor on a large number of issues but one thing I do not disagree with him on is supporting a lunatic for the president of the United States is not a good idea, said Dean, a former Democratic National Committee chairman.He added that Kasich, unlike Republican Sen.
Rob Portman, had guts for not endorsing the presumptive GOP nominee.
Kasich has told reporters he would support Trump only if the businessman had an experience akin to Saul s conversion on the road to Damascus.
Portman has endorsed Trump while condemning some of Trump s more controversial comments like attacking a federal judge for his Mexican heritage.Source: USA TodayWhile Dean didn t mention Bernie Sanders or Bernie or Busters, his next sentence seemed to be directed right at the people considering Trump over Clinton: Look, I understand people are mad at Washington.
I m mad at Washington, but that doesn t mean you have to elect a crazy person, Dean said.Recent polling has shown that the vast majority of Bernie supporters plan on voting for Clinton, but 15 percent are still either on the fence, vowing to not vote at all, or pledging to vote for another candidate, including Trump.
This could be a close race, and that small percentage could mean the difference between a safe but not particularly revolutionary choice and a complete lunatic.
I know which way sane people will be voting; so does Howard Dean.Featured image via Brad Barket at Getty Images