Last week, printers at colleges across the country suddenly started spitting out fliers advocating white supremacy and Antisemitism.
The headline of the flier was White man are you sick and tired of the Jews destroying your country through mass immigration and degeneracy?
And it went downhill from there.On Monday, a white supremacist hacker claimed responsibility for the mass hack:PRINCETON, N.J. A well-known computer hacker who goes by the name of Weev said he was behind a wave of anti-Semitic, racist fliers that appeared on printers at more than a dozen college campuses last week.
Weev is the alias of Andrew Auernheimer, who in 2010 was part of a group of hackers that discovered a security loophole on AT&T s servers and gained access to the data of 114,000 customers.
Mr. Auernheimer was initially convicted of identity fraud and conspiracy to access a computer without authorization, but his conviction was overturned on appeal.It s not clear that Weev even broke any laws since all of the printers he accessed were open to remote printing and were not protected by a password.Although Weev did not mention Donald Trump, it s not much of a stretch to assume he s a big fan.
While the white supremacy movement has always been lurking in the shadows, Trump s candidacy has emboldened it to crawl out into the light.
With millions of people no longer ashamed to be openly racist, the ranks of the KKK and Neo-Nazi groups have swelled, giving them and people like Weev the confidence to publicly tout their hatred of Those People:The fliers directed readers to The Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website.
Mr. Auernheimer said free speech concerns were behind his printing spree.
My motivation is this: White cultures and only white cultures are subject to an invasion of foreigners.
The threat to white culture that he s referring to is the loss of white privilege.
This is truly a terrifying concept to people who think white people are inherently superior but refuse to compete on a level playing field.
It s also the fear that minorities, once in power and no longer minorities, will treat white people the way white people have treated them for centuries.We should expect to see more (a lot more) racist propaganda being disseminated by bigots who honestly think their time has come again.Featured image via nbcphiladelphia.com