The fact that German Chancellor Angela Merkel is no fan of Donald Trump is no secret.
However, being the diplomatic, experienced world leader that she is, Chancellor Merkel took the time she was forced to spend at the White House with Trump in stride.
She smiled at the cameras at all the right times, held a joint presser with him, and was cordial to all, as real world leaders do.
This all comes as Trump insulted Merkel more than once during the visit.
We all know that he infamously embarrassed our nation by petulantly refusing to shake the Chancellor s hand, and now, there is a new report out that Trump actually gave Merkel an invoice for expenses that he believes Germany owes for defenses provided by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).According to The Hill via a report from The Times of London, Trump s insane bill charges Merkel roughly 300 billion pounds.
A response from a German minister on Trump s childish stunt was predictably and deservedly scathing, essentially saying that Merkel has no intentions of stooping to Trump s level: The concept behind putting out such demands is to intimidate the other side, but the chancellor took it calmly and will not respond to such provocations.
The same minister said that Merkel, quote, ignored the provocations.
Of course, the White House says that Trump never gave Merkel the invoice, but that s likely just another lie to cover up for Trump s petulant, childish, and internationally embarrassing behavior.In fact, it is perfectly plausible that Trump gave Merkel this invoice, because he had already had aides calculate just how much below 2 percent of Germany s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was spent on NATO defense in the last 12 years.
Countries within NATO all commit to spending 2 percent of their GDP annually to support NATO.
Trump even had the people doing the calculations add interest.This is just beyond embarrassing.
Here is another ally we are on the rocks with, all because we have a president who acts like a whiny school yard bully instead of leader of the free world.Featured image Cheriss May/NurPhoto via Getty Images