Oh.
My.
God.
The stupid, it burns.Anybody who actually paid attention in science class in school are going to have a collective WTF moment when they learn what one Pennsylvania Republican said about the cause of climate change.As we all know by now, Donald Trump signed an executive order reversing every action President Obama took to fight and reverse climate change, a move that has horrified scientists around the globe.But just as cringe-worthy is what Scott Wagner told a group of county officials on Tuesday.
Wagner is a GOP state senator who wants to be Pennsylvania s next governor.
Unlike Donald Trump, he acknowledges that climate change is real.
However, his view on what causes climate change is far different than what any actual scientist has concluded.According to Wagner, climate change is happening because of two different reasons.
First, he claimed that it s happening because of body heat.
Seriously.
We have more people.
You know, humans have warm bodies.
So is heat coming off?
Things are changing, but I think we are, as a society, doing the best we can.
Humans have warm bodies but it s not our body heat that is causing climate change.
It s all the pollution we harmful gases we expel into the atmosphere like methane and carbon dioxide.
Also, reversing climate action is not doing the best we can.
Ending the fight against climate change threatens our country, especially our coastlines, which will likely end up under water unless we do something fast to prevent sea level rise caused by climate change.But then Wagner suggested another cause for climate change and this one makes it clear that Republicans need to pick up a f*cking science book.
I haven t been in a science class in a long time, but the earth moves closer to the sun every year you know, the rotation of the earth, Wagner said.
We re moving closer to the sun.
Again, this is a guy who wants to occupy the top government office in Pennsylvania.And Wagner is absolutely wrong.As Huffington Post reports,Contrary to what Wagner said, the earth rotates on its axis every 24 hours, not every year.
And it may come as a surprise to him that the United States and the rest of the Northern Hemisphere experience winter when the earth s yearly orbit brings it closest to the sun.Furthermore, Wagner made it sound like the Earth s orbit around the sun is decaying.
But it definitely is not decaying.
If anything, the sun would become a red giant and swallow the Earth.
And that probably won t happen for millions of years long after climate change kills us all because Republicans like Donald Trump and Scott Wagner deny climate change and its cause.After his embarrassing remarks went viral, Wagner released a statement somewhat acknowledging that humans have contributed to climate change.
I believe that the climate is changing every day, and some of that change is certainly manmade.
I think that we have a responsibility to future generations to be good stewards, and I support efforts to do that.
However, the real question isn t is the climate changing but what role should the government play in trying to alter it.
I believe we have to prioritize action in a measured way so that we do not hurt our economy.
The problem is that climate change will do more to hurt our economy than the measures employed to stop it ever will.
One would think saving the planet would be the number one priority.
But as usual, Republicans are thinking more about the wallets of billionaires.Featured Image: Wikimedia