Colin Kaepernick has been taking a whole lot of heat since he made the decision to sit during the national anthem in protest of the way people of color are treated in the United States.
On Thursday night, Kaepernick once again refused to stand while the Star Spangled Banner was sung, but this time, he wasn t the only one.Image via InstagramKaepernick was joined in his protest Thursday night by fellow 49er Eric Reid, a safety, who knelt beside the quarterback as the national anthem rang out through the stadium before they played the San Diego Chargers.
Reid also serves as the representative for the player s union and has been supportive of Kaepernick all week, despite the uproar over his protest.However, it is not only his teammates who are joining Kaepernick s protest.
Seattle Seahawks cornerback Jeremy Lane also sat while the national anthem was sung on Thursday night before the start of their game against the Oakland Raiders.Image via Instagram.The 49ers have played four exhibition games this year and Kaepernick has not stood for the national anthem at any of these games.
Nobody seemed to notice until his first game in uniform, which was last Friday.
Kaepernick explained that he wasn t standing as a protest of the way the lives of minorities are continually snuffed out by those who are sworn to serve and protect them.
He noted that the only consequence for these murders is a paid vacation.
I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, Kaepernick said.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
It is good to see other teammates and professional football players standing beside Kaepernick and standing up for all African American lives in America.
Hopefully, their numbers will grow and they will continue to use the national platform at their disposal to help bring awareness to the systemic racism plaguing not only the country in general but the criminal justice system in particular.Kudos to you gentlemen.
Kudos to you.Featured image via Instagram