Much to the dismay of mainstream media journalists, Donald Trump Jr. released all email communication regarding his meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya today on Twitter.
Meanwhile, Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya has told NBC News that she met with Donald Trump Jr. to discuss sanctions, that she did not have any Kremlin connections, and that she did not hand over information about Hillary s campaign.She confirmed her meeting with Donald Trump Jr. was about Russian adoptions in the US.But is there more to Natalia Veselnitskaya than meets the eye?
Who is she?
Does she have ties to Obama and the Democratic Party?
Was the meeting with Donald Trump Jr. a set up?According to The Gateway Pundit: The law firm where Veselnitskaya is listed as managing partner, Kamerton Consulting, is based in a Moscow suburb and does not even have a website.A staff member at Kamerton told The Associated Press Veselnitskaya was unavailable for comment on Monday.Her office in Moscow may be a shell.
There is no working phone, email or website.Russian President Vladimir Putin s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Monday that the Kremlin is unaware of a meeting between Trump s senior staff and Veselnitskaya and does not know who that is.
Peskov said, No, we don t know who that is and obviously we can t monitor all meetings Russian lawyers hold both in Russia and abroad.
Now this Natalia Veselnitskaya was sitting with Obama s Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul during a Foreign Affairs Committee hearing, 8 days after cold-contacting Trump Jr. in Trump Tower.Here s a shot showing who appears to be Natalia Veselnitskaya, sitting behind from the June 14, 2016 Congressional hearing on Russia and the Ukraine.Natalia Veselnitskaya photo:MORE That looks like Emin Agalarov sitting next to Natalia Veselnitskaya.
He was mentioned in Donald Trump Jr s statement this morning.
Emin helped set up the meeting with Veselnitskaya.Veselnitskaya was also connected to Fusion GPS, the DNC opposition research firm that produced the fraudulent and discredited Trump Dossier.So why was Veselnitskaya hanging out with Obama officials just days after her meeting with Donald Trump Jr.?And why was Veselnitskaya given a privileged seat up front during the Congressional hearing?