The Obama administration s well guarded Osama bin Laden documents were released on Wednesday by CIA director Mike Pompeo.
The documents were seized in a raid after U.S. SEAL Rob O Neill killed Osama bin Laden.
The Obama administration basically politicized the intelligence agencies when they hand-picked just a few of the 470,000 documents to release.
They hid damning evidence that could have hurt Obama s chance at reelection in 2012 .OBAMA RAN THE CLOCK OUT AL QAEDA WAS NOT ON THE RUN :Steve Hayes of the Weekly Standard: In a manner of speaking, Barack Obama wanted what al Qaeda already had: a mutually beneficial partnership with Tehran.
Revealing to the American people the truth about Osama bin Laden s cozy working relationship with the Iranian government might have fatally undermined that diplomatic quest, just as the ongoing vitality of al Qaeda, amply testified to in the bin Laden documents, would have contradicted Obama s proud claims in 2012 that al Qaeda was on the run.
So Obama, with the eager cooperation of some in the intelligence community, bottled up the bin Laden documents and ran out the clock.IRAN S CLOSE TIES TO AL QAEDA COULD HURT THE IRAN DEAL:Within the documents is an assessment by a senior jihadist with al Qaeda Tehran ties: how Iran supplied everything needed, including money, arms and training in Hezbollah camps in Lebanon, including safe haven for other jihadis, the New York Post reported.The assessment is raising questions as to how much then-President Obama knew about Iran s ties to al Qaeda before making his controversial deal.
And it points to the reason why the former administration might have kept the documents under lock and key.The Obama White House had this information for five years before making the nuclear deal that critics argued would ultimately make it easier for the terror state to build nuclear weapons.
Bin Laden had called Iran a main artery for funds, personnel and communication for al Qaeda, the Post reported.That wasn t the only suspicious dealing Obama had with Iran.
In August 2016, Republicans were furious over a reported deal Obama had made to release American hostages in Iran.The former administration denied paying $400 million in ransom for the hostages, arguing that it was part of a legal settlement in a long-standing case.
However, it was only the first of three payments to the Iranians totaling $1.3 billion that took place after the hostage release, as the Wall Street Journal disclosed.
And strikingly, much of the case came by way of plane-loads of cash in international currencies.But the revelations about bin Laden and the former administration don t end there.MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD CONNECTIONS TO BIN LADEN:In one of the 10,000 videos files contained within the newly released documents, bin Laden is asked to name is his influences.
The terrorist leader didn t hesitate, The National reported.
From a religious aspect, I was committed within the Muslim Brotherhood.
Bin Laden also suggested the Muslim Brotherhood sponsored his first trip as a young jihadi.
It was the first time I travelled to a country where I did not know the language, he writes.
I carried a pistol and went.
The Brotherhood, they had poor knowledge about things.
If they knew, I would not have had to travel through Syria to Antakya 12 hours by bus to reach Istanbul.
It was easier from Jeddah to Istanbul by plane.
Three hours by plane.
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD CONNECTIONS TO CLINTONS:Critics of the Muslim Brotherhood have long warned of its terror affiliation and infiltration into the West.
One Brotherhood official Gehad el-Haddad was arrested two years ago in Cairo for inciting violence.
El-Haddad (pictured below) previously worked as an executive for the Clinton Foundation.
Via: BPR