In a bizarre interview with Irish TV, wacky grandma Hillary Clinton talked about her election loss.
She took it upon herself to say she was totally worried about Trump becoming our president.
Maybe it was visions of that orange prison jumpsuit and a jail cell that kept going through her head.She also admitted that she had no concession speech prepared.
Really?
That s just stupid!
You paid those pollsters to lie.
You must have known the truth or did you figure that no one could overcome as much election fraud as you and the Democrat Party had committed?Either way, Hillary, Donald Trump is President, you are not, and We the People are the grateful winners.The interview takes on a narcissistic tone when she describes how she had to go lie down and would scream in her pillow to get over the pain of losing the election to Trump.
I would have to go lie down because it was so excruciating , she joked to interviewer Ryan Tubridy in a candid conversation, filmed near her home in Chappaqua, New York.
I was in a state of shock.
I had not prepared a concession speech, the former presidential candidate revealed, explaining that whilst expecting a close result, her campaign remained confident of victory up until early election night returns began to suggest otherwise.
EVERYONE WAS SO CONFIDENT Following a final rally in Philadelphia, appearing with then president, Barack Obama, husband Bill Clinton and celebrities including Bruce Springsteen and Bon Jovi, Clinton recalled that on the eve of polling day everyone was so confident.
Whilst discussing the inauguration of President Trump, asked if she wanted to scream, Clinton told RT , Oh, I did.
But that was a common occurrence in those days.
You know, scream into the pillow when I saw what was happening.
I would have been disappointed and really unhappy if I had lost to a normal Republican.
But to lose to someone who I believed profoundly was not ready for the job, was temperamentally unqualified for the job was such a burden.
I just thought, I ve let everybody down, I ve let my country down, I ve let the world down.
How did this happen?
Clinton recalled.TOSSING THE BLAME TO EVERYONE BUT HERSELF Acknowledging the role of the email scandal and various shortcomings in her campaign, Clinton also blamed Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and the propagation of fake news as factors in the election of President Trump.
I knew there were these other forces at work that needed to be unpacked and analyzed.
It s not only about what happened, it s about preventing it from happening again, she added.
SLIGHTLY WACKY GRANDMA With links to Ireland since her involvement in the Northern Ireland peace process of the 1990s, Clinton, who segued from imposing political figure to slightly wacky grandma according to one reviewer, told Ireland s RT Television that she was not going to let the experience turn her bitter and cynical and that she would use her platform to fight against what she saw as politically damaging trends emerging in the US.SHE NEEDS TO GO AWAY!