Former Army Ranger Alejandro Villanueva was the only Pittsburgh Steelers player to appear on the field and stand for the national anthem today.
Think about it one player out of all of the players showed respect for what our flag stands for.
They just don t get it Boycott the NFL!Alejandro Villanueva was the only Steeler to come out for the National Anthem, standing in the tunnel.
pic.twitter.com/L4EtxRQSvA CBS Sports (@CBSSports) September 24, 2017Alejandro Villanueva, a West Point graduate and former Army Ranger who served three tours in Afghanistan, stood at the tunnel with his hand over his heart to salute the flag and honor the brave men and women who have served America.
This is not a political stance but a love of Country stance.
These players need to understand the difference and honor those who have fought and died for America.A Facebook fan has the best take on this yet: THEN TAKE A KNEE Take a little trip to Valley Forge in January.
Hold a musket ball in your fingers and imagine it piercing your flesh and breaking a bone or two.
There won t be a doctor or trainer to assist you until after the battle, so just wait your turn.
Take your cleats and socks off to get a real experience.
Then take a knee.Then, take one at the beach in Normandy where man after American man stormed the beach, even as the one in front of him was shot to pieces the very sea stained with American blood.
The only blockers most had were the dead bodies in front of them, riddled with bullets from enemy fire.Take a knee in the sweat soaked jungles of Vietnam.
From Khe San to Saigon Anywhere will do.
Americans died in all those jungles.
There was no playbook that told them what was next, but they knew what flag they represented.
When they came home, they were protested as well..and spit on for reasons only cowards know.Take another knee in the blood drenched sands of Fallujah in 110 degree heat..Wear your Kevlar helmet and battle dress..Your number won t be printed on it unless your number is up!
You ll need to stay hydrated but there won t be anyone to squirt Gatorade into your mouth.
You re on your own.
There are a lot of places to take a knee Americans have given their lives all over the world.
When you use the banner under which they fought as a source for your displeasure, you dishonor the memories of those who bled for the very freedoms you have.
That s what the red stripes mean.
It represents the blood of those who spilled a sea of it defending your liberty.While you re on your knee, pray for those that came before you, not on a manicured lawn striped and printed with numbers to announce every inch of ground taken but on nameless hills and bloodied beaches and sweltering forests and bitter cold mountains..every inch marked by an American life lost serving that flag you protest.
No cheerleaders, no announcers, no coaches, no fans just American men and women delivering the real fight against those who chose to harm us blazing a path so you would have the right to take a knee.
You haven t inkling what it took to get you where you are but your protest is duly noted.
Not only is it disgraceful to a nation of real heroes, it serves the purpose of pointing to your ingratitude for those who chose to defend you under that banner that will still wave long after your jersey is retired If you really feel the need to take a knee, come with me to church on Sunday and we ll both kneel before Almighty God.
We ll thank him for preserving this country for as long as He has.
We ll beg forgiveness for our ingratitude for all He has provided us.
We ll appeal to Him for understanding and wisdom.
We ll pray for liberty and justice for all because He is the one who provides those things.
But there will be no protest.
There will only be gratitude for His provision and a plea for His continued grace and mercy on the land of the free and the home of the brave.
It goes like this GOD BLESS AMERICA!
No Steelers were on the sideline during the anthem.LT Alejandro Villanueva, a veteran who served in the Army, stood near the tunnel.
pic.twitter.com/JOviLUAtiF Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) September 24, 2017