Just a few months before reports of her sexual assault lawsuit against Donald Trump rocked the campaign, cosmetics executive Jill Harth lobbied to be the then-candidate s make-up artist.On Monday, The Hill detailed the story of Harth s repeated efforts to become Trump s campaign makeup artist and to pitch her new male cosmetics product line, Made Man.
Her solicitations, in both emails and in person, came a few months before her 1997 lawsuit was brought to light, along with several other sexual misconduct allegations against the candidate.
The Hill learned of her appeals to Trump in an interview with Harth in December about her friendship with celebrity attorney Lisa Bloom; Trump s lawyers then provided the emails.
The Hill followed up with Harth, who defended both her attempts to work with the man she accused of sexual assault and her current call for him to be impeached.In 1997, Harth sued Trump for allegedly pushing her up against a wall and trying to get his hands up her dress during a meeting at Mar-a-Lago in 1993.
She eventually withdrew the lawsuit as part of a settlement over Trump allegedly pulling out of a business deal.
But as The Hill notes, the tone of her emails to Trump in 2015 was starkly different than the tone of her 1997 lawsuit and the interviews she gave about it in 2016.The Hill provides some examples of the emails Harth personally sent to Trump between the summer of 2015 and early 2016: Hi Donald, you are doing a tremendous job of shaking things up in the United States.
I am definitely on Team Trump as so many others are, Jill Harth wrote the future president in an Oct. 1, 2015, email sent to him through his New York company s headquarters.
I can t watch television without seeing you or hearing your name everywhere!
It s a good thing for sure but PLEASE let me do your makeup for a television interview, a debate, a photo session, anything!
Harth wrote.
It kills me to see you looking too orange and with white circles under the eyes.
I will get your skin looking smoother and even toned, she added, boasting she would sculpt your face to look good on high-definition television sets.The Hill also notes that Harth is one of the accusers who financially benefited from her work with Bloom on the allegations: the attorney set up a GoFundMe page for Harth that paid off her mortgage and an email revealed that Harth s sales soared after Bloom appeared on TV to discuss her allegations.
Daily WireBIG PAYDAYS FOR TRUMP ACCUSERS:According to FOX News, Legal powerhouse Lisa Bloom tried to line up big paydays for women who were willing to accuse President Trump of sexual misconduct during the final months of last year s election, according to an explosive report.Proud to call Attorney @LisaBloom my friend.
She is very warm, smart, caring, & REAL.
Watch her interview on The View .
You ll see what I mean.
She even mentions me.
pic.twitter.com/rAW9CvxGYn Jill Harth (@jillharth) November 11, 2017The Hill reported Friday that Bloom worked with campaign donors and tabloid media outlets to arrange compensation for the alleged victims and a commission for herself, offering to sell their stories.
In one case, Bloom reportedly arranged for a donor to pay off one Trump accuser s mortgage and attempted to score a six-figure payment for another woman.
The former ultimately declined to come forward after being offered $750,000, the clients told The Hill.