This is out of control!
Is there anything more un-American than telling high school students they aren t allowed to cheer U.S.A.!
at a sporting event because they may OFFEND someone from another nation?PLEASE CALL the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association in Stevens Point, WI Phone (715) 344-8580 Let them know how you feel about their decision to prevent students from chanting USA!
in the United States Of America!The wussification of Wisconsin has begun.Last month the state s governing body for high school athletics declared that chanting U-S-A, U-S-A, is unsportsmanlike behavior.The Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association also directed schools to stop fans from booing, or chanting Air Ball, Season s Over, Fundamentals, Scoreboard, and Over-Rated.
Any action directed at opposing teams or their spectators with the intent to taunt, disrespect, distract or entice an unsporting behavior in response is not acceptable sportsmanship, the WIAA wrote in an email obtained by the Post-Crescent.
Student groups, school administrators and event managers should take immediate steps to correct this unsporting behavior.
I should point out that a spokesman for the WIAA told television station WISC that the sportsmanship guidelines are a point of reference and not a requirement.
It s up to each school or district to create their own sportsmanship conduct policies and enforcing them with appropriate consequences, the spokesman told the television station.
Wisconsin s football stadiums, basketball arenas and wrestling mats have become safe spaces for the perpetually-offended generation.Vince Lombardi must be rolling over in his grave.Oh, you should see the 40-page sportsmanship manual complied by the fragile snowflakes at the WIAA.Take, for example, the section that frowns on booing of any kind.
If errors in judgment is (sic) made, all are human and we must accept that.
Individuals do the best to execute in a way they ve been trained, the WIAA wrote.They also took issue with the Na Na Na Na Hey Hey Hey Goodbye song.
They called it taunting and disrespectful.
The WIAA found the U-S-A chant to be problematic, too along with any acronym of derogatory language or innuendo.
Their guidelines became national news after a high school basketball player got in trouble for posting a profane message about the sportsmanship rules on her Twitter account.April Gehl, an honor s student and basketball standout at Hilbert High School, suggested the WIAA should (let me put this delicately) eat excrement.Based on national media coverage, her opinion was shared by many.
Nevertheless, April was suspended for five games.
Her family does not plan on appealing the decision.Paul Ackley is the athletic director at McFarland High School.
He told WISC that he supports the recommendations.
If a kid gets an answer wrong on the white board, they re not going to start chanting, You can t do that, he said.
This is not Division I athletics.
This is an extension of the classroom and it s education-based.
What in the name of Bear Bryant is going on Wisconsin?Granted, you don t want the children hollering out profanities and running around the gym buck-naked.
But, these guidelines are not so much about sportsmanship as they are about political correctness.We re talking about high school basketball.
It s not a croquet match.
Via: FOX News