Wow!
Did Hannity go too far with Cruz or did he not go far enough?GOP presidential candidate Texas Senator Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) and talk radio and Fox News Channel host Sean Hannity engaged in a testy exchange over the delegate process on Hannity s radio show on Tuesday.Hannity began the interview by asking, I think the number one question on the minds of Republicans right now is what is going on with the delegates.
For example, if you can explain to people that your campaign, that you have every right, within the rules, to talk to candidates, that are pledged on a first ballot, to candidate A or candidate C, you being candidate B.
And that tell us what that process is.
Cruz answered that isn t what people are concerned about, and are instead concerned about policy issues and beating Democratic candidate former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Cruz further stated that the media loves to obsess about process.
This process, and this whining from the Trump campaign is all silly.
It s very, very simple .
https://youtu.be/En5jPy8SzjUHannity then cut in to say, I m on social media, with millions of people.
I have 550 radio stations.
And I have the top-rated cable in my hour, all across the board.
And I am telling you, that people are telling me, that they find this whole process confusing.
He further stated that this wasn t a process question.
It s an integrity of the election question.
And everybody s asking me this question.
So, I want I m giving you an opportunity to explain it.
Cruz responded, Sean, the only people asking this question, are the hardcore Donald Trump supporters.
Hannity again cut in to ask, Senator, why do you this?
Every single time you you ve got to stop.
Every time I have you on the air, and I ask a legitimate question, you try to throw this in my face.
I m getting sick of it.
I ve had you on more than any other candidate, on radio and TV.
So, if I ask you, Senator, a legitimate question to explain to the audience, why don t you just answer it?
Cruz then said, Sean, can I answer your question without being interrupted?
Cruz then talked about the results in Utah, North Dakota, Wisconsin, Colorado, and Wyoming, all of which Cruz has won.
He added, Over 1.3 million people voted in those 5 states.
We won all 5.
All of this noise and complaining and whining has come from the Trump campaign, because they don t like the fact that they ve 5 elections in a row, that Republicans are uniting behind our campaign.
So, they re screaming, on Drudge, and it s getting echoed, this notion of voterless election.
It is nonsense.
They are making it up.
Over 1.3 million people voted.
We won landslides in all 5.
Cruz continued, Now, there is a second component, beyond the elections, which is the individual delegates are elected by the people.
Donald Trump s campaign does not know how to organize on the grassroots.
And so, when the delegates are elected, conservative activists, real conservative activists show up, and they elect delegates, and we are winning those elections over and over and over again.
The Donald Trump campaign doesn t know what they re doing.
They don t show up.
In Colorado, the Donald Trump team was handing out flyers asking their supporters to vote for a slate of delegates, they included Cruz delegates on their slate.
They just they didn t even know how type up a piece of paper without getting it wrong.
In Washington state, when Washington state elected their delegates, three days before the election, the Donald Trump campaign, in a panic, realized Washington state was getting ready to elect their delegates.
They sent out an emergency email to their Washington supporters, but they screwed up, and sent it to their Washington, DC supporters, instead of their Washington state supporters.
I cannot help that the Donald Trump campaign does not seem capable of running a lemonade stand.
Elections are won by voters and grassroots activists showing up and voting for the candidate they support.
Via: Breitbart News