Donald Trump has once again showed why he will only have white, male support.
In a recent shakeup which entails staying on script, the GOP nominee made his much anticipated pitch to African American voters.And just as one would expect, it went horribly, horribly wrong.Trump actually said no joking around that black people should vote for him because they have nothing left to lose: What do you have to lose?
You re living in poverty.
Your schools are no good.
You have no jobs.
Fifty-eight percent of your youth is unemployed.
What do you have to lose?
This speech was delivered in a community Lansing, Michigan which is 93 percent white and less than one percent black.
If Trump is serious about courting black voters and sympathizing with their struggles, he should go to Harlem, Chicago, New Orleans, Detroit, and other areas where the black population is at least above 25 percent.After telling black voters that their livelihood sucks and that they all belong in low-income socio-economic conditions, Trump made the bold prediction that he, with less than three months to go until election day, would win 95 percent of the black vote.
The sheer arrogance and misguided gobbledygook espoused out of his mouth should alone be the disqualifying factor.Trump is polling at 1 percent with black voters.
In less than three months, he s going to have to convince 94 percent of the black population he s with them.
Like everything else, Trump is setting himself up for failure.The man who has been sued for housing discrimination against blacks is now all of a sudden going to be their savior, just like middle class America s?
The man who pointed to a random black man and screamed look at my African American is the one who will produce for the black community?Trump missed one very key (and detrimental) point in his speech: not every black person is in poverty.
Not every black person goes to a broken school.
Not every black person is unemployed.
The dog whistle stereotypes that Trump perpetuated were not meant to showcase black plight it was political red meat for his racist base of support.And to answer Trump s question of what do you have to lose?
the answer is quite simple: everything.With his candidacy breathing new life into the white nationalist movement, anybody who isn t a white, Christian male has something to lose from a Trump presidency, and that especially includes African Americans.The Clinton campaign commented swiftly on Trump s racist, offensive and misleading remarks, saying:Donald Trump asks what the African American community has to lose by voting for him.
The answer is everything from a man who questions the citizenship of the first African American President, courts white supremacists, and has been sued for housing discrimination against communities of color.
Trump painting the entire community as living in poverty with no jobs continues to show he is completely out of touch with the African American community.Trump may have just cemented his losing streak with black voters.Featured image via Joe Readle/Getty Images