Jeffrey Cohen was a man who believed The meaning of life is OOPS!'
according to his obituary.
The 70-year-old Pennsylvania man passed away Sunday morning at his childhood home in Squirrel Hill, a suburb of Pittsburgh.
He was a person who took pride in being the only Jewish cowboy that he knew of, and an accomplished chiropractor one who treated Gold Medal-winning Olympians, members of the Pittsburgh Ballet, professional boxers, and many of the Pittsburgh Steelers throughout his career.
Even Weird Al Yankovich stopped by to see him.He is described as compassionate and kind someone who would always put others before himself, happily and without hesitation.
His love of dirty and groan-inducing jokes was legendary.
He also has one final request of those who love him and all who read his obituary don t f*ck up the next election, or at least do some good in the world:Jeffrey would ask that in lieu of flowers, please do not vote for Donald Trump.
(Also acceptable donations to the Nimmo Educational Foundation www.nimmoed.org or a charity of your choice .
)That s right to honor his memory, Cohen asks one simple thing: Don t vote for Trump.
Don t throw away our future.His obituary does not indicate whom he would choose as president, but he doesn t want people to vote for someone who would ban Muslims from entering the United States, throw them into concentration camps (after forcing them to register in a national database and wear special badges, of course), or any of the multitude of horrific ideas the brain-gerbils that reside beneath his hairpiece suggest.
Cohen doesn t want a big beautiful wall running the length of our (southern) border, nor does he want someone who would allow Sarah Palin to speak.This request is the opposite of an obituary request that popped up earlier this month when a Virginia man asked, in lieu of flowers please vote for Donald Trump.
The billionaire tweeted the obituary, declaring thanking the deceased man and declaring him to be a great person.
It seems as though Cohen made this request as a light-hearted retort to the Trump fan s suggestion that Americans vote for someone who would later be endorsed by Sarah Palin.Thank you so much.
Earnest must have been a great person.
https://t.co/2DZp7YOadj pic.twitter.com/2YtLlEwceB Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 9, 2016It is highly doubtful that Trump will say the same of Cohen.While no thinking individual would vote for Trump anyway, if you are considering voting for Trump, think about honoring this Cohen s dying wish instead.
We don t need to make America great again.
America is already great.But we can make it better by voting Blue in November.Featured image via Legacy/YouTube