What many people have been predicting throughout the course of this election may be starting to come to fruition, but it s still early, so nothing is for certain.What s that prediction?
That Republicans help Hillary Clinton win by voting for her over Donald Trump.According to TargetSmart, who is known for their political data, Clinton has an eight point lead in Florida among early voters.BREAKING: @_TargetSmart/@williamandmary FL poll: HRC 48 DJT 40Early voters from FL SoS: 55 38Likely voters, haven't voted yet: 42 43 TargetSmart (@_TargetSmart) November 2, 2016Tom Bonier, TargetSmart CEO, appeared on The Last Word with Lawrence O Donnell on MSNBC to share the news of this polling.
The most surprising finding being that Clinton has 28% of registered Republican voters voting for her.Bonier said: We see this race as an eight point spread in favor of Secretary Clinton.
48-40.
Which really is challenging the conventional wisdom of what we ve seen so far.
I will say, in what we re seeing, as been noted on your show and elsewhere on the network, a lot of the vote in Florida has already been cast and elsewhere.
As of this morning, over 3.6 million votes have been cast, and so, what s unique about this survey is our ability to actually poll people who have voted and see where they are.
There s been a lot of analysis of who s voted by party, but really no sense given of how they re voting.Really what s fueling, honestly, this somewhat surprising eight percent margin for Secretary Clinton is the fact that she s performing incredibly strongly with registered Republican voters.
So, what we re seeing in this survey is winning 28% of registered Republicans who have already cast a ballot in Florida.
This certainly doesn t look too good for Trump, but it s still early and the election is still a week a way, so who s really to know.
BUT it s definitely looking good for Clinton thus far.
Watch here:28% of GOP early voters in Florida voted for #HillaryClinton & she has an 8 point lead in early voting!#ImWithHer #LastWord pic.twitter.com/zNIk7UEyEE Khary Penebaker (@kharyp) November 2, 2016Featured Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images