It s no secret that a large percentage of the Trump administration thinks the Holocaust didn t happen (or, if they do, they think Hitler had it right), but even The Donald s harshest critics didn t expect the White House Press Secretary to openly deny the Holocaust during a press briefing.
But, of course, this is the Trump administration where up is down, taking food from the poor is compassionate, and Hitler didn t gas the Jews.On Tuesday, White House Propaganda Minister Sean Spicer attempted to defend Trump s seemingly pointless (unless the point was to make himself a whole lot of money through investments in the company that makes the missiles used) bombing run in Syria that he authorized because Ivanka was having a sad day.
According to Spicer, Assad is much worse than Hitler becauseat least he didn t use chemical weapons on his people like Syria s president does.
We didn t use chemical weapons in World War II.
You had a, someone who is as despicable as Hitler who didn t even sink to using chemical weapons, Spicer told a room full of almost certainly stunned reporters.
In other words, Zyklon B didn t exist and concentration camps Spicer called them Holocaust centers were just fun places where stuff happened that totally didn t involve chemical weapons being used on Jewish people.Shortly after Spicer said the Holocaust didn t happen, the Anne Frank Center stepped up to take his words and shove them down his throat with such force that they traveled through time and shot out the seat of his great grandson s pants in the middle of his Speech final.
(He ran out of the room and received an Incomplete )..@POTUS @realDonaldTrump MUST FIRE SEAN SPICER NOW FOR ENGAGING IN HOLOCAUST DENIAL.
OUR STATEMENT BELOW.
#Antisemitism #NeverAgain pic.twitter.com/4dB9ESCaZr AnneFrankCenter(US) (@AnneFrankCenter) April 11, 2017 On Passover no less, Sean Spicer has engaged in Holocaust denial, the most offensive form of fake news imaginable, by denying Hitler gassed millions of Jews to death, the organization s executive director, Steven Goldstein, said in a statement.
Spicer s statement is the most evil slur upon a group of people we have ever heard from a White House press secretary.
Sean Spicer now lacks the integrity to serve and President Trump must fire him at once, Goldstein says.Though many would disagree with the idea that Spicer had integrity at all at any point in his life, the sentiment is true: Spicer must resign, or Trump must fire him.
Or there will be hell to pay.Watch Spicer s remarks below, and happy Genocide Awareness and Prevention Month, everyone!Here s Spicer s answer about Hitler not using chemical weapons (he gassed millions), and his attempt at a clarification, which made it worse pic.twitter.com/gcJGhASVK2 Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) April 11, 2017Spicer, trying to clarify his Hitler answer makes it worse: He was not using the gas on his own people in the same way that Assad is doing pic.twitter.com/SSA1P680z5 Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) April 11, 2017Featured image via screengrab