An argument over a $25 gun repair charge led to a father-son shootout, at gun store in Mississippi.The shootout involved two different fathers and their sons.
According to police, at around 3:00 pm on Saturday a man and his son went to the McLemore Gun Shop, located in Pearl River County.
They were there to pick up a gun that had been dropped off for repairs.The man reportedly became irate after being told that the gun was not ready, and that there was a $25 service charge due.The wife of the gun shop owner, who was working the counter at the time, called her husband and son to deal with the angry gun-owner.A tussle broke out between the two fathers and their sons, which led to pushing and shoving, and then a hail of gun fire.WLOX reports that four people were shot during exchange.
The 40-year-old owner of McLemore Gun Shop, located in Pearl River County, died from injuries sustained during the shootout.
The owner s 17-year-old was also pronounced dead at the scene.The other gun-owner, a father in his 50 s, and his son, described as a man in his late 20 s, were seriously injured during the gun fight.
Both men were taken by helicopter to local hospitals.At this time, it s unknown which of the four armed men fired the first shot.According to NRA propaganda, the only way to keep from getting shot is to surround yourself with lots and lots of guns.
Yet somehow this gun shop owner and his 17-year-old son are both dead, in spite of the fact that they were surrounded by lots and lots of guns.We keep hearing that Guns don t kill people.
People kill people.
But arguments and shoving matches can not turn into full-fledged shootouts unless there are guns around for angry people to get their hands on.The right wing will tell you that fathers and sons bonding over guns is an American tradition.
Kids getting shot is also a uniquely American tradition.
Every year at least 10,000 children under the age of 18 are injured or killed by guns in the United States.
We can add another 17-year-old to the nameless statistics that we traditionally count at the end of each year.Featured image credit: Niels Noordhoek via Wikipedia, cc 3.0