Sean Spicer got off to a bit of a rocky start as White House press secretary on Saturday when he embarrassed himself, his President, his country, and pretty much anyone who has so much as heard of the United States, with his trainwreck of a press briefing.
Spicer chose to kick off his new, exciting, and likely short career by focusing on the issues that matter the most like Trump s crowd size.Despite a turnout that was dwarfed many times over by a stampede of Nasty Women descending on Washington D.C. to tell Trump to go f*ck himself, Spicer claimed that This was the largest audience to witness an inauguration.
Period!
This was, of course, a gigantic lie.
According to Spicer, the crowd only looked small because they used floor coverings to protect the grass and this somehow transformed a large percentage of the crowd into vampires who were unable to be captured by a single recording device (though we suppose that white area could have been the tops of Trump fans hoods creating the illusion of an empty space).Alec Baldwin may not have reprised his role as The Donald this week, much to the dismay of an eager populace, but he did stop by Twitter to have some fun with Spicer, delivering a kick to Sean Hannity s deploraballs for good measure.Sean Spicer reminds me of Sean Hannity: another hopped up, no talent white boy who thinks he's right and clever.
Both are neither.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 22, 2017Baldwin also dropped an important message of hope on Americans, reminding us that the rallies, the marches, the protests, and everything else that causes Donald Trump to cry himself to sleep at night are a good start, but it is up to each and every one of us to keep hope alive because eventually this nightmare will be over and we will work to fix whatever damage he is able to do together.1- All of today's rallies, marches, protests are a beginning.
The great responsibility now is to keep those fires burning.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 22, 20172- Trump and his kleptocratic handlers are banking on everyone hitting the wall, burning out.
They are counting on your fatigue.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 22, 20173- I pray that we show them that, while we hit times like these, times of inconceivable bleakness fueled by the avarice and ego of Trump ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 22, 20174- this will end.
And from this we will find someone, whoever they may be, who will rebuild this government.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 22, 20175- Trump wants to take the principles of American democracy, honed over many years, and smash them out of hatred and fear.
Reminds u of ?
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) January 22, 2017Baldwin is right.
Saturday, we saw one of the largest civil rights marches in history.
The marches need to get bigger, the message that we are not going to tolerate his brand of hatred must get louder, and we as Americans a nation of people who were forged from and tempered by adversity need to stand together against anything he throws at us.Featured image via screengrab