An active shooter situation is developing in Los Angeles outside a polling place in Azusa.
Not much is known at the moment, including whether the shooting is political in nature or not.
However, the fact that it happened outside a polling location automatically makes it suspicious.According to the Los Angeles Times, the shooting happened sometime after 2 p.m. Pacific time, so just before polls closed on the East Coast.
Police are not reporting the exact location of the shooting in order to protect the safety of the officers, victims, and bystanders in the area.One victim was rushed to the hospital where they died.
Three others were wounded.
One voter told CNN: At first, I thought it was construction but people came running into the room saying they see a guy with a bulletproof vest and a white shirt.
As of right now, they just have us in the voting room and are trying to keep us calm.
The polling station and two schools were on lockdown at the time of this posting.
The L.A. County registrar was urging voters to steer clear of the area.
Police have said the shooting is contained now:#UPDATE: Police say shooter in Azusa has been contained,but shelter in place order remains for those nearbyhttps://t.co/C7J0v5eLFd Good Day LA (@GDLA) November 9, 2016Given that this is the most contentious election in modern history, and it s been fueled by some of the worst right-wing hate there is, it s not hard to wonder whether the shooting was related to Donald Trump s calls for supporters to ensure that everything at polls around the country is the up-and-up.
It s also possible that someone wanted to scare people away from the polls.NOTE: We are not saying that this is the case because we don t know what happened right now.
It s entirely possible that this is completely unrelated to the election authorities aren t releasing much information.Police are saying that the shooter has been contained, but voters are still going to alternate polling places.Featured image via screen capture from embedded tweet