There s a reason Trump hates CNN, and it s been obvious for a long time.
However, what many may not know is exactly why CNN s negative coverage gets under his skin so badly.
It turns out that he believes CNN owes him for putting their current president, Jeff Zucker, in place.
When the network released the Access Hollywood tapes in which Trump admitted to sexually assaulting women, and then followed that up with increasingly bad coverage, he saw it as an act of betrayal.So he sent Zucker this letter: Jeff Too bad you (CNN) couldn t be honest with how well I did in the debate.
The dumbest thing I ever did was get you the job at CNN you are the most disloyal person.
Just remember, I always seem to find a way to get even.
Best wishes, Donald J. Trump.
Yep.
You are the most disloyal person.
Trump literally believes that Zucker should reward him with favorable coverage throughout what the rest of his career, or his whole career in politics, or something.
Maybe he expected CNN to just ignore all the heinous things he does because he was so awesome to them way back.The hilarious thing is what s happened since.
From The New York Times:[T]he only thing better than having Donald Trump on your network is having him attack it.
Far from hurting CNN, Trump s war against it has amounted to a form of product placement earned media, you could say giving its anchors and correspondents starring roles in the ongoing political drama, turning them into camera-ready warriors for the First Amendment.In 2016, CNN made nearly $1 billion, which was the network s most profitable year ever.
They re on track to beat that for 2017 already, and it s only April.
Zucker s on a hiring spree.
They re getting some huge scoops.
The list of good fortune goes on.So revenge?
It s backfired on Trump horrifically.CNN disagrees that Trump s 2012 lobbying had any effect on their decision to give Zucker the top position, and it wouldn t be surprising to find that they re actually telling the truth.
Trump is a narcissist who believes he has far more influence over everyone than he does.Featured image by Shawn Thew-Pool via Getty Images