It looks like Justice Antonin Scalia s untimely death is not just causes Republicans to lose their minds in fear, a giant corporation embroiled in a class action lawsuit is just as scared.
In fact, they are so afraid of the possibility of a split or liberal Supreme Court that they have settled their lawsuit for almost a billion dollars.Dow Chemical was set to go in front of the SCOTUS after a 2013 ruling by a Kansas court upheld a massive $1.06 billion judgement against the company for price-fixing.
The company sued and found liable after being accused of colluding with four other chemical companies (Bayer AG, BASF SE, Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical Co.) to fix the prices of polyether polyol products which are used to make urethane foam in order to overcharge customers in the 90s and early 2000s.The company was counting on Scalia to rule in their favor and overturn the huge judgement, but then he died.
His death meant that one of two things would happen 1.)
they d go in front of 8 justices and get a split decision which would uphold the $1.06 billion ruling, or 2.)
they would face a liberal court if Obama gets someone on the court and the judgement would also be upheld.
When they realized that they were screwed they issued a statement announcing they d settled and blamed it on Scalia s death:The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) has entered into a settlement agreement to resolve the In re Urethanes Class Action litigation.
In this settlement agreement, Dow has agreed to pay the plaintiff class $835 million Growing political uncertainties due to recent events within the Supreme Court and increased likelihood for unfavorable outcomes for business involved in class action suits have changed Dow s risk assessment of the situation.
Dow believes this settlement is the right decision for the company and our shareholders.Translation: Scalia died and f*cked us over, so now we are being forced to pay $835 million to all of the people we hurt.Scalia s death didn t just hurt Dow though, there are a number of other huge corporations set to go in front of the court, including Microsoft and Tyson Foods.What s actually really infuriating about this is that Dow was so sure that they were going to win this case until Scalia croaked.
This guy was such a corporate shill (as are the rest of the conservative members) that big companies who had judgements levied against them were happy to go in front of the court because they knew they d win.So, while this sudden settlement may be hilarious, it is also pretty damning.
It really highlights how much the conservative Supreme Court has hurt average Americans in order to help big business.Featured image via Wikipedia