In a complete 180 degree turn, a church that was the site of numerous mind boggling anti-gay rants will now be home to a shelter designed specifically to help at-risk LGBT youth.
How s that for karma?Reverend James David Manning has become notorious for the awful sermons he delivers from his Harlem-based Atlah Worldwide Church.
Outside, he frequently puts up massive signs denouncing homosexuality and anyone who supports gay rights.
One sign claimed supporting same-sex marriage would give a person cancer or syphilis.
Another declared Obama had released homo demons to attack black men.Thankfully, Manning s time being able to spew insane garbage from the pulpit appears to be over.
Manning, busy as he was spreading hate, seems to have massively mismanaged his finances.
His church is reportedly over $1 million in debt and the property it sits on will now be auctioned off.Enter the Ali Forney Center, an organization dedicated to providing help to homeless and at-risk LGBTQ youth.
Since hearing about the recent vacancy they have been fundraising to buy Manning s old church.
In just 12 days they raised over $200,000.
It s likely they will soon be able to acquire it.
We re confident we ll be able to go into the auction with a partner that will allow us to have not just an entry-level bid, said Carl Siciliano, the Center s founder and executive director.
Because the building is historic, it is subject to zoning laws that make it almost impossible for the lot to be used to erect something like luxury housing or office buildings.
If the building still manages to fall into the hands of a developer, Siciliano and his colleagues have a back-up plan: they will try to rent space there for $30,000 a month.Hilariously, Manning seems to be in pure denial that his church is being sold.
He insists he s not leaving.
In a disturbing video, Manning took aim at his enemies that want to take him down just because he hasn t paid over a million dollars in taxes.
He does, however, appear to be dimly aware that his church will soon be a homeless shelter for LGBTQ youths.
All kinds of stuff is being spread around [about how] they re going to turn this church into a bathhouse.
How they re going to turn it into a homeless building for the sodomites.
It s mainly the sodomites.
The soulful minded people aren t doing anything.
It s not soulful people or sodomites doing this to Manning it s the government.
In December, a judge ordered the foreclosure after over a decade of Manning s church deliberately not paying his taxes.
Records show that he has a whopping nine separate tax liens against him.
Some going as far back as 2002.Manning is always quick to point out parts of the bible that speak against homosexuality, but he seems to have overlooked the parts that condemn greed.
Maybe he should have paid more attention.Feature image from YouTube