For months now, the right and some on the left have been politicizing the fact that Hillary Clinton, like virtually all people who have been in positions of power, gets paid to speak for large audiences.
Clinton earns large paychecks for the speaking engagements around $200k a piece, much of which has been donated to the Clinton Foundation.
So why doesn t anyone talk about the fact that Donald Trump made far more in speaking fees for a company that is essentially a pyramid scheme?Well, to be fair, the right-wing Daily Caller is talking about it.Trump s presidential financial disclosure, which was released on Wednesday by the Federal Election Commission, shows that he has been paid $450,000 each for three speeches given on behalf of ACN Inc., a North Carolina-based multi-level marketing company.
The celebrity and real estate billionaire spoke most recently at ACN s annual convention which was held in Charlotte in February.Trump first became involved with ACN in 2006.
In 2009 and 2011, company executives appeared on the mogul s NBC reality show, Celebrity Apprentice.
During one of those episodes, a video phone ACN was selling was a featured product.Like all multilevel marketing companies, ACN (American Communications Network) is more about recruiting people people who have to pay $499 just for the privilege of selling products plus an annual fee and training expenses.
That s all kind of standard, but Robert Fitzpatrick, who runs the website called Pyramid Scheme Alert, says ACN is one of the worst.
They don t seem to care about sales at all, but they do care about offering false hope and Trump is part of that.I ll let this video tell you more:Here s another:There are negative reviews all over the internet about ACN.
While they have an A+ rating with the Better Business Bureau, that s only after the Bureau had to field 203 complaints over the last three years.It s doubtful Trump cares.
Trump sells his name to anything that might give him a profit.
Trump University should be enough to show that Trump is a scam artist and a fraudster.
The fact that Trump chose to get in bed with a Multilevel Marketing Company with dubious, at best, ethics, says all we need to know about the man who could be president.Featured image via Jonathan Bachman/Getty Images.