Trump has been bested by a man who is far smarter and far more ethical than he could ever dream of.
James Comey apparently documented his conversations with Trump in memos, and the New York Times has spoken to at least two people who reportedly have those memos and read parts of it to them.
In one memo, which documents a conversation that happened back in February, Comey reports that Trump said: I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go.
He is a good guy.
I hope you can let this go.
This conversation reportedly took place the day after Flynn resigned, so we can assume that Trump thought, or hoped, that he could force that to be the end of it.
The White House has already made it clear that they re going to try and pin this whole mess on Flynn and claim ignorance, and a conversation like this, with Trump asking Comey to drop it, fits in with that narrative rather well.But that s not all.
That memo also reportedly says that Trump told Comey to consider jailing members of the press who publish classified leaks.
Trump believes that the leaks coming from the White House are the bigger threat and has been raging for weeks that the FBI hasn t been focusing on those.In other words, Trump was not only trying to turn all eyes off of him, he wanted Comey to start working on his jail all press who speak negatively of me plan.Comey was known for taking detailed notes, particularly when he felt that the details of a conversation might be questioned later on.
The Times reports that he created memos about every meeting and phone call he and Trump, and he did share some of them with senior FBI officials.Of course, the White House is fervently denying this conversation happened this way.
According to the Times piece, their official statement on the matter says: While the president has repeatedly expressed his view that General Flynn is a decent man who served and protected our country, the president has never asked Mr. Comey or anyone else to end any investigation, including any investigation involving General Flynn.
The president has the utmost respect for our law enforcement agencies, and all investigations.
This is not a truthful or accurate portrayal of the conversation between the president and Mr. Comey.
Of course it s not, at least, not to the White House.
Trump has said that this investigation is a hoax perpetrated by the Democrats in his desperation to appear totally innocent.
He even had a law firm send a certified letter to Sen. Lindsey Graham that was somehow supposed to prove that neither he, nor his associates, colluded with Russia at any time.Trump never succeeded in getting Comey to do what he wanted in anything.
He never got Comey to shift his attention to leaks of classified info and jailing members of the press who published them, and he never got Comey to stop investigating his own, and his campaign s, ties to Russia.
He s now so desperate that he s sending out fundraising emails begging his supporters to help him win against the deep state.
No wonder Comey was fired.
Expect the White House to spin up a brand-new web of lies, which may include more threats against Comey and other FBI officials.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images