The Royal Jordanian airline is celebrating Donald Trump s recent humiliation in style.
Since a federal judge recently lifted The Donald s travel ban, Royal Jordanian wants to make sure as many people visit the United States as possible.
Royal Jordanian received new instructions from the US Customs and Border Protection to temporarily halt ban on travel of seven previously-barred nationals to enter the USA.
The countries are: Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Yemen, Iran and Somalia, the airline said on its website, noting that as always, travelers need a valid visa or Green Card.To celebrate Trump s despair, Royal Jordanian is slashing prices while the ban is lifted.
On Sunday, they tweeted an ad featuring the word Ban with the a converted to an o and the word Voyage written in.
Fly to the US with RJ now that you re allowed to, it reads, with heavily slashed prices to Chicago, Detroit, and Trump s home state of New York.
??
#DonaldTrump #MuslimBan pic.twitter.com/rptY3dS3Xh Royal Jordanian (@RoyalJordanian) February 5, 2017This isn t the first time RJ has hit Trump over the ban.
On Election Day, the airline encouraged travelers to travel to the US while you re still allowed to you know, just in case he wins.
?
#USElections pic.twitter.com/yBDVO2w3gb Royal Jordanian (@RoyalJordanian) November 8, 2016The lift of so-called President Trump s ban by a so-called judge has sent the Orange Menace into a fanatical rage as of late with Trump lashing out on Twitter, blaming the judge who denied him his success in keeping people who practice a religion he hates out of the country for any an all terrorist attacks that might or might not occur in the future.Trump should be thanking Judge Robert.
As President, it is in his best interest to learn as much about our government as possible and it s clear that The Donald has never heard of checks and balances before this.If you live in one of the seven previously-banned countries, be sure to fly to New York at a discount and visit Trump Tower.
We re sure he d love that.featured image via Getty Images (Pool)/screengrab