When people say What happens in Las Vegas, stays in Las Vegas.
they apparently aren t kidding around Suspicion about what is going on in the Las Vegas massacre investigation is at an all-time high.
Americans want to know, and frankly, we have a right to know what happened in Las Vegas the night of the Rt.
91 Music Festival, where 59 people were killed and 527 were injured.
It s almost eery how quickly the Las Vegas investigation has fallen off the radar of the mainstream media, who don t seem to be interested in finding out what really happened, and even appear to be giving up on using the massacre to promote their gun-control agenda.A worker at the Mandalay Bay hotel said Wednesday that he warned staff at the complex to report an active shooter before gunman Stephen Paddock launched his massacre on crowds at a music festival below the venue.The revelation has added to doubts about the initial timeline given by authorities about what happened Oct. 1.
They had said the assault began with Paddock opening fire on concertgoers at the Route 91 Festival.But the new account alleges that an unarmed guard Jesus Campos who was initially believed to have approached and been shot by Paddock during his massacre was shot before the assault, with that gunshot heard by a maintenance worker.JESUS IS BEING PROTECTED BY AN ARMED SECURITY GUARD WHO REFUSES TO SAY WHO S PAYING HIMIndependent investigative journalist Laura Loomer paid a visit to the home of the hero Mandalay Bay Casino and Resort security guard who was allegedly shot by the Las Vegas shooter Steven Paddock.
Loomer can be seen having a conversation with a paid security guard who refused to say who was paying him to stand in front of Campos home.
Who is this guy and why is he there?Watch:Investigative Journalist Laura Loomer visits Mandalay Bay "Hero" Security Guard Jesus Campos @ His House @miketokes https://t.co/6L0T6ADzPa Laura Loomer (@LauraLoomer) October 12, 2017JESUS CAMPOS DOESN T APPEAR TO BE REGISTERED AS A SECURITY GUARD IN LAS VEGAS AS REQUIRED BY LAWEvery security guard in the state of Nevada has to register as an armed or unarmed guard with the state s Private Investigator s Licensing Board (PILB).
This entity s records are publicly searchable at: nevadapilb.glsuite.us.There s no Jesus Campos licensed with the PILB.
Here s a close up look at the NV PI Licensing Board:The document above was released by pol News Infinity who has done some amazing investigative work on a number of cases.
The pol News Infinity Twitter account has since been SUSPENDED.JESUS CAMPOS IS A NO SHOW FOR PRESS CONFERENCE AND SEAN HANNITY INTERVIEWThe same day that Loomer paid a visit to Campos home, Jesus Campos had a press conference and interview with Sean Hannity scheduled for later in the day.
Campos abruptly canceled the press conference and the interview with Sean Hannity.Media scrum tonight as we learn security officer shot in Vegas attack, Jesus Campos whereabouts are unknown.
pic.twitter.com/Jk09tRlPsX Stephanie Wash (@WashNews) October 13, 2017We were in a room and we came out and he was gone, Campos union president told reporters, according to ABC News Stephanie Wash.Campos is represented by the International Union, Security, Police and Fire Professionals of America, which did not respond to requests for comment from Fox News earlier this week.Fox News Sean Hannity tweeted out that Campos, who was scheduled to appear on Hannity Thursday night, cancelled his appearance.He cancelled.
https://t.co/fWCb4X8cNQ Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) October 13, 2017JESUS CAMPOS AGREES TO GIVE A SCRIPTED INTERVIEW WITH ELLEN DEGENERES ON HER SHOW.
HIS APPEARANCE ON THE SHOW IS SHOCKINGLY DIFFERENT THAN THE IMAGE THAT S BEEN CIRCULATING OF HIM IN THE MEDIAAn announcement was made last week that Jesus Campus would appear on the Ellen Show.
Jesus did appear on the show, but given the original photo of Campos that was being used in the media and a quick snapshot from his appearance on the Ellen Show, two things really jump out.
The first thing that jumps out is the incredible 1-week weight gain that Campos had experienced, and the second is the missing moles that were very prominent in the photo below, that was allegedly taken only one week before his performance on the Ellen Show.#Jesuscampos in 5 days, gained 50 LB, had moles removed from his face, has no injury to forehead but had bandage on it 5 days before?
pic.twitter.com/TlT6Mt0eyZ Fed Up Lilly (@FedUpLilly) October 21, 2017MGM ADMITS TO ALLOWING CAMPOS TO ONLY APPEAR ON THE ELLEN SHOW IN AN EFFORT TO MAKE SURE HE KEPT HIS STORY STRAIGHTFearing Jesus Campos would spill the beans about the timeline of the shooting if he was grilled by proper journalists, MGM, which owns the hotel where deranged gunman Stephen Paddock shot 600 people, insisted that security officer appear ONLY on only appear on Ellen, DailyMail.com has learned exclusively.MGM is worried that families of the 58 people murdered as well as many of the 546 injured in the Mandalay Bay massacre will launch lawsuits potentially worth billions of dollars against the company, sources tell DailyMail.com.And they thought Campos might not keep his story straight under the pressure of the TV lights and tough questioning.That is why Campos, 25, appeared on a daytime chat show hosted by a fast-talking, dancing comedienne, rather than take questions from TV hardhitters such as Fox News Sean Hannity, CNN s Wolf Blitzer or MSNBC s Rachel Maddow.
MGM was behind the decision to call off all the interviews and did a deal with Ellen, knowing she would not play hardball on the timeline as long as she had the exclusive, a TV insider told DailyMail.com.Here s a closer look at the images:And now, citizen journalist Mike Tokes has uncovered what is indeed a very suspicious development.
Tokes traveled to the Las Vegas coroners office to see if he could get some answers from the Clark County Coroner and Medical Examiner John Fudenberg.
What Tokes got when he attempted to enter the Las Vegas Coroner s office was a woman by the name of Laurie who informed him that the coroner s office was on lockdown and would remain on lockdown at least until the end of the week .
When Tokes asked if it was unusual for the office to be on lockdown, she replied, We ve never had a situation like this.
Watch:VIDEO PROOF: Las Vegas Coroner's office on LOCKDOWN with police units stationed on each side of the building.This is very suspicious.
pic.twitter.com/CMBnWzmFRp Mike Tokes (@MikeTokes) October 21, 2017Cori Langdon, a Las Vegas cab driver recorded her harrowing experience as she entered the Mandalay Bay Casino at about the same time gunshots were first being fired into the crowd at the Rt 91 country music festival in Las Vegas.Langdon was using her phone to videotape, as she was pulling into the Mandalay Bay Casino when she heard gunshots.
She can be heard telling the dispatch operator for her cab service that she hears what sounds like automatic gunfire.
Cori Langdon hears more gunfire, and tells her dispatch operator that the gunshots sound like they re coming from a completely different area: Now it sounds like its coming from farther away.
After listening to Langdon s video recording of the event as it unfolded, one can t help but wonder if it s possible there was more than one shooter.Automatic gunshots are still being heard from the cab.
Langdon tells her dispatch person: Somethings going on.
I m not sure why people aren t running, but.
There s a security guard, what s he doing?
Ya know, for there being gunfire, it sure doesn t seem like people are runnin .
Oh, shit!
Seriously?
I don t know what s goin on?
Where are the cops at?
I m right here by the porch of Mandalay Bay, and everything seems to be normal here.
More and more rapid-fire gunshots are heard.
The radio dispatcher replies, Remember, what happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas.
And everything seems normal when it s not.
Watch, as Ed Rusiackas dissects what happened as Langdon approached the Mandalay Bay Casino and Resort, giving what many believe is evidence that there was more than one shooter:Here s the video in its entirety:Here s the Ellen Show interview in entirety: