Ever since Target decided to stand up to transphobic bigots and allow transgender individuals to use the restrooms that matched their gender identity, the retail chain has come under attack by thousands of anti-gay activists.Protesters have started to visit the stores with no other goal than to shout anti-trans hate speech, and many are threatening to boycott the store.
Now, Target has come under fire from another hate group Faith2Action, a Christian group that describes itself as a pro-active launching pad for the pro-family movement, which has recently made a ridiculously pathetic music video called Don t Target Our Daughters .The music video is a fear mongering piece of work, in which the horrific audio features a singer spewing lyrics such as, No matter how long it s shouted, sin is not a civil right.
And calling evil good will never make it right.
The video also shows a Target card being cut up, a little girl being attacked in a bathroom stall, and an invitation for viewers to help Janet Porter (the bigot who made this video) boycott the store in an event scheduled for June 4th.The video is so terrible, it s honestly hard to sit through the entire thing.
It wasn t long before Facebook users ripped the video to shreds.
One commenter wrote: Any plans to protest our Tea Party legislature in Tennessee for not expanding health insurance to thousands and thousands of children?
Surely, child poverty and health is a big issue with you, right?
One woman pointed out a fact that has been overlooked by the video s creators, remarking that despite what these bigots would like to have people believe, there have literally been ZERO instances in which a transgender person has assaulted anyone.
She said: Your daughters have been sharing the restrooms with transgender women their whole lives.
They are in no danger by continuing to do so.
A transgender woman, however, will be in danger if they must use the men s room.
Another commenter had a genius solution for anyone bothered by transgender people having the freedom to live their lives as they please: I have an earth-shattering idea.
Perhaps you all can simply mind your own business and just shop elsewhere?
You can watch the video below and see what you think of Faith2Action s desperate ploy to control the rights of others: Featured image is a screenshot