William Stanford Nye or Bill Nye is an American comedian, actor, writer and science educator.
Bill Nye initially started working as a mechanical engineer and later turned to hosting television shows.
Bill Nye has a net worth of $6.5 Million.He has acquired his wealth and fame mainly because of the television show Bill Nye the Science Guy that was produced jointly by Disney and PBS.
The show aired for almost four years.
It was aired first in 1993, and it continued till late 1998.Nye also attended Sidwell Friends in DC, the same elite private prep school as the Obama girls.
Nye was honored with a doctorate by the Johns Hopkins University, and he also received an Honorary Doctor of Science Degree in 2011 from the Willamette University.The American Mirror Bill Nye the science guy is gaining a new reputation as Bill Nye the eugenics guys after a recent episode on this Netflix show Bill Nye Saves The World.
Nye tackled the subject of overpopulation during the show s season finale on Tuesday, and hosted a panel discussion that included the question: Should we have policies that penalize people for having extra is in the developed world?
Nye, a high-profile climate change activist, posed the question after panelist Travis Reider of Johns Hopkins University alleged that the average Nigerian emits .1 metric tons of carbon annually.Watch:https://youtu.be/eHmtn6gAioQThe Nazi s also believed in killing children to further their cause.
It s actually called eugenics : From 1933 to 1945, Nazi Germany carried out a campaign to cleanse German society of individuals viewed as biological threats to the nation s health.
Enlisting the help of physicians and medically trained geneticists, psychiatrists, and anthropologists, the Nazis developed racial health policies that began with the mass sterilization of genetically diseased persons and ended with the near annihilation of European Jewry.
With the patina of legitimacy provided by racial science experts, the Nazi regime carried out a program of approximately 400,000 forced sterilizations and over 275,000 euthanasia deaths that found its most radical manifestation in the death of millions of racial enemies in the Holocaust.Rachel Snow, chief of population development for the United Nations, intervened.
I would take issue with the idea that we do anything to incentivize fewer children or more child.
It s justice and human rights, she said.
People should have the number of children they want and the timing of children and if some families have five or six children, God bless them, I mean, that s fine.
But most people end up with fewer.
Another panelist, Montefiore Medical Center director of family planning Nerys Benfield, pointed out that poor and minority women would be disproportionately impacted by policies that penalize parents for extra kids.
These people, in the name of climate change, are beginning to sound an awful lot like the eugenicists of the early 20th century, DanJanTube posted in the comments of a YouTube clip of the show.
Disturbing.
Others attacked Nye and Netflix on Twitter.
This might be the darkest show Netflix has ever streamed, Chris Morgan tweeted.