Trumpkins fancy themselves true American patriots, despite their lord and savior, Donald Trump, being the opposite of American patriotism.
They re so secure in their not-patriotism that they threaten anyone who doesn t want to vote for Trump with violence, and death.Those anti-American threats have extended to newspapers like the Arizona Republic, which endorsed Hillary at the end of September.
That endorsement represents the first time in the paper s 125-year history that they ve endorsed a Democrat.They started receiving death threats shortly after the first debate.
Today, the paper s president put Trumpkins to shame by telling them what real patriotism looks like, and it looks nothing like Donald Trump.
Free speech requires compassion.
The woman who answered the phone at the Republic s offices got to hear an angry caller wish doom on them, and invoke the name of one of the paper s reporters who was assassinated 40 years ago.
She reported that caller to the authorities, but she also prayed for the caller, despite the threat.
Free speech requires an open debate.
Nicole, the paper s editor in charge of the news staff, led her reporters to a Trump rally following their endorsement, knowing the jeers and harassment they would receive.
Trumpkins had said the Republic would burn, should be shut down, etc., and still she did her job in covering both sides of the election.
Free speech requires bravery.
Trumpkins also said that anyone with whom they disagree should be punished.
The Republic s editorial page editor, Phil, who s a lifelong Republican, calmly denounced Trump, over and over, despite the escalating problems with Trump s fans.
Free speech is part of a society that values hard work and opportunity.
This one should be obvious because Trump s fans allegedly value hard work above all.
The young men and women who sell Republic subscriptions door-to-door were so frightened after getting spit on, bullied, and threatened with violence that they didn t want the paper to publish their first names.
Yet, they still come to work and still go door-to-door.
Free speech is sometimes the only way to hold the powerful accountable.
Trump fans called the paper s staff hacks and losers.
It was an investigative reporter at the Republic who first broke the story about the horrid treatment veterans receive at the Phoenix VA. His work brought that out into the open, led to uncovering more scandals, and now, maybe real change can happen.
Do Trump fans value vets?
Not nearly enough.
Do they know how to research?
No.
Free speech, and a free press, comes at a cost.
Trumpkins told the paper that one of their legacy publishers, Gene Pulliam, was spinning in his grave over their terrible transgression in endorsing a Democrat.
Gene s wife, Nina, sat at the bedside of the reporter who was assassinated 40 years ago, and watched him die slowly for the crime of doing his job.
Freedom of religion is a fragile and precious thing.
The Republic s current president, Mi-Ai Parrish, has a grandfather who is a Christian pastor.
Trump fans who have deluded themselves into thinking they re Christian said Jesus would judge her, that she would burn in hell and that non-Christians should be kept out.
She invoked her grandfather, who is an example of real Christian persecution.
He and a friend were imprisoned and tortured for refusing to deny Christ.One of the biggest insults to Christians who suffer such persecution in the world is all the pseudo-Christians here who are crying about persecution because they can t force their religion down our throats.
These people are sorry excuses for Christians on those grounds alone.The paper was also asked what right they had to endorse Hillary.
Parrish has family that grew up under an oppressive dictator.
Her mother had no right to free speech, no right to free press, no right to education, and no right to vote.
The Trump fans would take all of that away from us just so they re more comfortable.
One man can make a difference.
At its core, that is what America stands for.
Jobe Couch, an Army cultural attach living in Alabama, sponsored Parrish s aunts and mother when they came over from Korea.
His generosity helped many immigrants, who are now citizens and earning their livings as teachers, engineers, pastors, lawyers, and more.
The Trump fans who told the Republic s staff that they should go live with those immigrants they love so much, in the countries they come from, have forgotten what America is.What s the First Amendment all about?
It s all about the above.
Trumpkins have no clue what patriotism is if they did, they d be appalled at anyone who behaved the way they and Trump himself do.To read the Arizona Republic s entire moving response, click here.Featured image by Zeb Micelli, Public Domain, via Wikimedia Commons