Baked Alaska is a former liberal who wrote for the ultra-liberal Buzzfeed publication.
He s now a conservative activist and Trump supporter who regularly attends pro-Trump and free-speech rallies to document the violence from the Left, and to show his support for his fellow conservatives.Baked Alaska attended the Charlottesville rally this weekend to peacefully show his support for free speech and was met, not surprisingly, by violence from leftist thugs.
The type of violence he encountered however, wasn t your run of the mill George Soros funded Antifa gang violence, it was more like the kind of violence you see in the Middle East by Muslim extremists.
Baked Alaska was walking down the sidewalk filming the activities at the protest, he was met by protestors screaming, Black Lives Matter!
Within seconds of encountering this very large group of protesters, Baked Alaska can be heard screaming that he was sprayed with pepper spray in the eyes.As it turns out, Baked Alaska was actually sprayed in the eyes with ACID.Shorty after the incident, Baked Alaska tweeted about the horrific act of violence committed against him:Hospital has sent me to the ER, I was told there's a large possibility I'll have permanent eye damage.
Keep me in your prayers thank you fam Baked Alaska (@bakedalaska) August 13, 2017Here is one of Baked Alaska s friends updating his supporters on his condition.
Apparently throwing acid in an innocent person s eyes wasn t enough for the left, Baked Alaska s friend @ Millennial_Matt exposed the thousands death threats they, and their families have been receiving after attending the Charlottesville, VA rally in support of free speech:@Millennial_Matt has made a statement on #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/nDwUbNoY7A m me br l e 2 (@memebrulee2) August 13, 2017Here s a picture of Baked Alaska in the hospital giving the thumbs up to his supporters.
He is still unable to see in this picture:i can't see how do i look?
pic.twitter.com/Sks0BRiq1W Baked Alaska (@bakedalaska) August 13, 2017Baked Alaska tweets about coming together and trying to understand each other peacefully shortly after leftists threw acid in his eyes:We must come together as a country and try to understand each other peacefully.
We can't continue to scream nazi or sjw back & forth.
Baked Alaska (@bakedalaska) August 13, 2017Here are some of the responses from the Left to Baked Alaska s tweet, explaining to his followers that he may have suffered permanent eye damage:https://twitter.com/emilymmxx/status/896909105490567168https://twitter.com/GarbageTaint/status/896852067448483841Baked Alaska replied to responses from the hateful leftists here:The amount of people rejoicing that I likely have permanent eye damage is very disgusting.
The REAL hateful people are being exposed.
pic.twitter.com/G4XFYmapGV Baked Alaska (@bakedalaska) August 13, 2017