While Republicans whine that President Obama isn t going after ISIS hard enough, a CNN host reminded them that only Congress can declare war.It s right there in Article I of the Constitution.
Only Congress has the power to declare war.
The president does not have that power.
In order for President Obama to take on ISIS with the full resources and military strength of the Unites States, Congress must declare war.But so far, Republicans have been cowards and refused to do so, instead claiming that President Obama already has the power to go full throttle against what they claim is our most dangerous enemy today.If ISIS is such a big threat, then why not declare war?That was CNN host Chris Cuomo s question when he grilled GOP Rep. Sean Duffy on Thursday.Duffy claimed that President Obama has not done enough to defeat and destroy ISIS, including saying the magic words radical Islamic terrorism, and said that Republicans should hold a sit-in protest at the White House demanding he take more action.
Our generals say we could take out ISIS in weeks if not months, Duffy declared.
However, that s because there would have to be ground troops involved, which means war.Duffy claimed that President Obama is responsible for the Orlando mass shooting because he hasn t pursued ISIS enough even though airstrikes have killed thousands of ISIS fighters since the terrorist organization began their rampage across the Middle East.Cuomo replied by pointing out that Republicans in Congress have the power to help President Obama prosecute the fight against ISIS but don t want to be held responsible for sending troops into battle.
I don t know what you re asking for that isn t done right now, Cuomo said.
The generals do say they can take out ISIS, but we know what they re asking for: They re asking for boots on the ground.
You re part of a Congress that won t even have a vote on the authorization for use of military force against ISIS.
Duffy claimed that President Obama has the all the authority he needs because of the power Congress gave President Bush over ten years ago.
The problem, however, is that those authorizations were to fight al-Qaeda in response to the 9/11 attacks and Congress has changed significantly since then.
Most of the members serving now were not around at that time.
If it matters so much, why not take control of it with the power that s yours?
Cuomo asked.
Duffy claimed that he would gladly do it.Cuomo slammed Duffy by noting that Republicans never give President Obama blanket power.
All they do is obstruct him from doing anything, yet they have no problem with him overstepping his constitutional authority to wage war against an enemy Congress has not declared war on.Duffy then changed the subject back to guns and why we shouldn t do anything to prevent terrorists from legally buying guns to commit mass shootings.Here s the video via YouTube.To be blunt, Republicans have been looking for any reason to impeach President Obama ever since he first took office.
So far, they haven t found any legitimate reason or they would have done it already.
And that s why it s important to question why Republicans won t declare war and why they are demanding that President Obama do more against ISIS.If President Obama listened to Republicans and began waging war against ISIS complete with the use of thousands of ground troops, they would crucify him for overstepping the authority of Congress and violating the Constitution and the separation of powers.
They would then be able to legitimately claim that President Obama abused his power and could then impeach him.That is the only logical reason why Republicans are so insistent that President Obama unilaterally go to war against ISIS.
But President Obama is smarter than they are and has refused to take the bait.If Republicans really want America to do more in the fight against ISIS the answer is simple.
They should use their constitutional authority to declare war instead of being cowards.Featured image via screen capture