Do you remember Trump s first meltdown week?
It was late July, after the Democratic National Convention, and as the election drew closer it seemed to many people as if Donald Trump might be approaching a mental breakdown.
It wasn t the final meltdown of the campaign, and doubtless the next four years will prove a harsher test of the Donald s sanity.
Yet it did result in some startling moments of honesty as Trump, in the grip of strong emotion, let some things slip that perhaps he shouldn t have.Take July 29, for example.
He was speaking in Denver, Colorado when he said the following:We have stupid people representing us.
Stupid, stupid people.
So, here s what s going to happen.
We are going to build, and bring, our best.
Look we have the greatest business people in the world.
Better than anyplace else.
We don t use them.
We use political hacks.
Some of these business people are not nice people.
Who cares?
Do you care?
I don t think so.
Some of these people are vicious, horrible, miserable human beings.
Who cares?
Who cares?
Some of these people they don t sleep at night!
They twist, and turn, and sweat!
And their mattress is soaking wet!
Because they re thinking all night about victory the next day against some poor person that doesn t have a chance!
And these people unfortunately, I know them all these people would love to represent us against China, against Japan.
Against all of these countries Mexico, where they re killing us at the border, and they re killing us in trade!For the record, I am not making the case he is projecting or speaking indirectly.
Despite his attempted qualifier, unfortunately, I know them all, it seems pretty clear that he is directly referring to himself.Think about it.
He is clearly stating (we can all agree here) that we should pick this class of best business people in the world to run things, instead of politicians and public servants.
Furthermore, he has selected himself (by running) as the epitome of what American leadership should be.So he s talking about himself.
Drain the swamp?
He s the fucking swamp monster.He describes himself as not nice and a vicious, horrible, miserable human being who twist, turns, and sweats rather than sleeping.
That explains the 3 a.m. Twitter temper tantrums, I suppose.He describes himself as staying up all night to figure out how to screw over poor people.
I will grant it s not clear whether he means this in a pitiful sense or economically.If you doubt the words as I have recorded them, think that I am taking him out of context in an unfair way, or really want to punish yourself, you can watch him speak below.
The reported remarks start around 1:24:00:h/t @NettiLDN for pointing this out on Twitter.Featured image via screencapture from embedded video