President Obama is clearly in good spirits thanks to his surging approval ratings and perhaps just a dash of relief at finally getting some rest after his term ends.
At a big L.A. fundraiser meant to give a boost to Democratic candidates this year, Obama couldn t help but make a few jokes at the Republican Party s nightmare primary situation.
And like any good joke, it was funny because there was some truth to it.During the night, Obama acknowledged that there are a bunch of very serious reasons to be terrified of what a Trump presidency might look like.
For women, minorities, those in poverty, or Muslims, four years of Trump are not an option.
He noted that one voter met him recently and nervously asked: Tell me that Mr. Trump is not succeeding you!
But before Americans despair, there is one silver lining.
As Obama told the crowd, the one thing we can thank Trump and Ted Cruz for is making the stakes of this election absolutely clear.
They aren t hiding behind innuendo any more.
The GOP s hostility towards progress is on full display.
Mr. Trump has actually done a service as Mr. Cruz is doing a service and that is laying bare, unvarnished some of the nonsense that we have been dealing with in Congress on a daily basis.
People act as if these folks are outliers but they are not!
We should thank Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz for just being honest that this is how we re thinking these days, or not thinking these days.
Obama nailed it.
What Cruz and Trump are doing is fighting for the true nature of the Republican Party right out in the open.
Each competes to outdo the other s xenophobia, religious discrimination and hateful rhetoric.
Even while Trump is being condemned by some in his party over his language, his closest competitor has repeatedly stated that he too will build a massive concrete wall along the southern border.
Both have floated the idea of discriminating against American Muslims based solely on their religion.
As the race sinks lower, it s hard to say which is the worse of the two.For that, Americans can get a clear sense of the stakes.
The Republican Party is simply not an option if you care about women s rights, LGBT rights, the welfare of the poor, or religious tolerance.
Neither candidate has a platform that extends to minorities or young people.
Both have very high profile supporters with ties to white supremacy.Which is why, in a serious turn, Obama said it was crucial for voters to oppose whoever gets the Republican nomination.Ds tell @POTUS they will miss him & aren't excited about the 16 race "And I say, 'I have no patience for that."
Juliet Eilperin (@eilperin) April 8, 2016"I say to folks, 'we cannot be complacent, & we cannot be cynical, because the stakes are too high.'"
@POTUS Juliet Eilperin (@eilperin) April 8, 2016Well said, Mr. President.Featured image via Joshua Lott/Getty Images