HODEIDAH, Yemen (Reuters) - Smiling and sitting down to bread and milk with her family, Yemeni teenager Saida Ahmed Baghili is barely recognizable a year on from the photo of her emaciated frame that came to symbolize the country s humanitarian crisis.
Baghili now weighs 36kg (80 lb), according to her father, more than triple the 11kg she weighed last October when Reuters first met her at the al-Thawra hospital in Sana a, where she was undergoing treatment for severe malnutrition.
There the 19-year-old was unable to talk, let alone carry her ghostly, skeletal frame, which is now stronger after weeks of specialist care and time at home.
Saida s body got better because she s eating better, but she s still having trouble swallowing, her father Ahmed Baghili said at their home in Hodeidah this month.
She can only eat milk, biscuits and juice.
Baghili s plight reflects that of many families in the Arabian Peninsula s poorest country, where a two-and-a-half-year war between a Saudi-led Arab coalition and the Iran-allied Houthi movement has claimed 10,000 lives.
A quarter of the 28 million population are starving, according to the United Nations, with half a million children under the age of 5 severely malnourished and at least 2,135 people killed by cholera.
Ahmed Baghili is only able to supply the basics for his family of 10, who live in a parched village on the Red Sea coast.
Saida, whose illness began before the war, is able to help her father tend to a farmer s cattle in exchange for milk, with their income boosted by Ahmed making deliveries on his motorcycle and donations from humanitarian organizations.
However, he says he doesn t have enough money to send Saida for further treatment and still fears for her health.
Her last appointment with a doctor was in December.
We re worried she might relapse and then we wouldn t be able to do anything because we have nothing.
We don t have the transportation fee, we don t have the fee for anything, he said.
Click on reut.rs/2gxeJkK to see a related photo essay