House Republicans (finally) unveiled their repeal-and-replace healthcare plan, much to the fury of all the people who will be hurt by the GOP s insistence on giving massive blow jobs to their corporate overlords.
Some Republicans aren t behind it, but many are.
And then there are some that have drafted their own bill, like Rep. Pete Sessions of Texas (not to be confused with embattled Attorney General, Jeff Sessions).He introduced his own healthcare legislation on March 1st, and he calls it the World s Greatest Healthcare Plan of 2017.
Seriously.
That s the actual name of the bill.
This isn t from The Onion, or something that Snopes or Politifact are going to rate as false.
Pete Sessions literally named it the World s Greatest Healthcare Plan of 2017.
While that sounds egotistical enough to be the same bill that the House unveiled earlier this week, it s not.
Sessions also never meant it to compete with the AHCA, which is the Republicans current plan with which to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Pete Sessions does support that bill and hopes it passes.His own bill, the World s Greatest Healthcare Plan of 2017, has similar provisions to the AHCA, because of course it does.
It would eliminate the individual and employer mandates, expand health savings accounts (which he apparently thinks promotes accountability), turns the premium subsidies into tax credits that are absolute baloney, and so forth.So it s another version of Obamacare Lite, which Republicans like Rand Paul despise because the AHCA is not the full repeal that they promised the American people (but a full, clean repeal like Paul wants is impossible now).But that name the one Sessions put on his own.
Really?
That s seriously something that Donald Trump would do.
Despite the name, Sessions spokesperson says he really believes in the GOP s plan, and believes that both are the greatest healthcare bills.
His just has a more ridiculous name, and it s not the first time he s introduced it.
He actually introduced The World s Greatest Healthcare Plan of 2016 last year.Perhaps his next bill will be one to amend the AHCA to be called the World s Greatest Healthcare Plan of 2018?
We need to pick our jaws up off the floor.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images