Former KKK grand wizard David Duke has officially qualified to participate in the Louisiana state senate debate after pulling in a whopping five percent of the vote in a new poll.
The debate will be televised and is being held at a historically black university.Duke, who is a well-known white supremacist, announced in July that he was running for a seat on the Louisiana state senate.
Not only has he been disavowed by his fellow Republicans, but the Republican National Committee and Louisiana GOP also looked into ways to boot his bigoted butt out of the party altogether.The debate itself is being hosted by Dillard University, a university in New Orleans that is historically black.
Regarding this ironic twist of fate, Duke said Dillard is pretty supportive of Black Lives Matter, and I ve been pretty critical of them.
He added that he plans to request extra security at the event.
Go figure.The poll that determined Duke had garnered the necessary five percent of the vote was commissioned by Raycom Media, which is the owner of four television stations throughout the state of Louisiana.
The poll was conducted by Mason-Dixon between Oct. 17 to Oct. 19 and included 625 registered voters.As for the rest of the candidates in the race and their standings in the poll, Politico reports: Louisiana hold its all-party primary on Election Day.
A candidate can win the seat with a majority of the vote, but the Senate seat looks almost certain to go to a Dec. 10 runoff between the two top vote-getters that day.
GOP State Treasurer John Kennedy led the poll with 24 percent of the vote, followed by Democratic Public Service Commissioner Foster Campbell with 19 percent and Democratic attorney Caroline Fayard with 12 percent.
Republican congressmen Charles Boustany and John Fleming earned 12 and 11 percent of the vote, respectively.
When Duke announced his bid for the senate seat late last summer, he said that his decision to run had been inspired by the success of Donald Trump.
In the video he released, Duke said was overjoyed to see Donald Trump and most Americans embrace most of the ideas that I ve championed for years.
Featured image via video screen capture