Renowned scholar Noam Chomsky has been warning of a Trump presidency and his fears have now become a reality.
His assessment of the current situation?
In an interview with Truthout, Chomsky said electing Trump has given total control of the government to Republicans, who he describes as the most dangerous organization in world history.
On November 8, the most powerful country in world history, which will set its stamp on what comes next, had an election, Chomsky said.
The outcome placed total control of the government executive, Congress, the Supreme Court in the hands of the Republican Party, which has become the most dangerous organization in world history.
Chomsky s primary concern with Republicans is their staunch refusal to accept climate change as a reality and their determination to destroy the planet as quickly as possible.
Apart from the last phrase, all of this is uncontroversial.
The last phrase may seem outlandish, even outrageous.
But is it?
The facts suggest otherwise, Chomsky explained.
The Party is dedicated to racing as rapidly as possible to destruction of organized human life.
There is no historical precedent for such a stand.
Chomsky went on to say that humans are facing the biggest disaster in our history.
Republicans, especially Trump, seem hell-bent on doing all they can to ensure our demise.
It is hard to find words to capture the fact that humans are facing the most important question in their history whether organized human life will survive in anything like the form we know and are answering it by accelerating the race to disaster, Chomsky said.He added that when it comes to Trump, Similar observations hold for the other huge issue concerning human survival: the threat of nuclear destruction, which has been looming over our heads for 70 years and is now increasing.
Chomsky said that Trump voters were driven by their desperation for change and that is what Trump offered, but he noted that the change that Trump is likely to bring will be harmful or worse.
He said that they were also driven by bigotry, citing studies which show that doctrines of white supremacy have had an even more powerful grip on American culture than in South Africa.
The political theorist said that this is exactly what he has spent years trying to warn people about.
For many years, I have been writing and speaking about the danger of the rise of an honest and charismatic ideologue in the United States, someone who could exploit the fear and anger that has long been boiling in much of the society, and who could direct it away from the actual agents of malaise to vulnerable targets, Chomsky said.
That could indeed lead to what sociologist Bertram Gross called friendly fascism in a perceptive study 35 years ago.
But that requires an honest ideologue, a Hitler type, not someone whose only detectable ideology is Me.
The dangers, however, have been real for many years, perhaps even more so in the light of the forces that Trump has unleashed.
A good deal depends on his appointments and circle of advisers.
Early indications are unattractive, to put it mildly, Chomsky added.You can read Chomsky s full interview with Truthout, here.Featured image via William B. Plowman/Getty Images