Another situation like the Bundy Ranch land grab has arisen in Texas the BLM (Bureau of Land Management) is claiming 600 acres of Ken Aderholt s land and is saying his deed to the land is no good.
Mr. Aderholt has been a rancher on this property since 1941!
The best hope for mr. Aderholt is if he puts up a big stink like Mr. Bundy did when people rallied for him.
Ken Aderholt was born in Harrold, Texas, and grew up on the state border.Aderholt s family has been running cattle on land near the Red River since 1941.
It has been running through generations and handed on down to me, Aderholt said.His hope was that his two boys would be able to carry on the family business and tradition.
They come down here a lot and play, Aderholt explained.
They help with the cattle and help building fences.
They are very interested in hanging round here and helping me out.
But his land could soon be in the hands of the Bureau of Land Management.
Aderholt, like many other Red River property owners, has been told that the land his family has owned for over 70 years is no longer his.
The BLM is saying we should have never had a deed to it.
That Texas should have never produced that deed, Aderholt said.However, the second generation rancher isn t giving up his land without a fight.
KAUZ-TV: Newschannel 6 Now | Wichita Falls, TXAderholt said the only land the BLM does have a right to is along the gradient boundary.
It varies, the way the water washes and cuts into different properties, but it has always been just a little slither of property, Aderholt said.According to the Bureau of Land Management, the true boundary is about half a mile inland, or roughly 600 of Aderholt s 1,250 acres.Aderholt s house is located inside the 600 acres the BLM wants to claim.
While he s been notified the land could be taken, he has not been told what the U.S. government plans to do with it.
It is a land grab, Aderholt emphasized.
As far as I am concerned, this is private property, said Aderholt.Via: Newschannel6now