21st Century Wire says Once again, Operation Mockingbird has been deployed in order to bury another damaging White House scandal.
It happened on Secretary of State Hillary Clinton s watch: the 2012 attacks on the covert US facility in Benghazi, Libya has been covered up from the beginning, and according to Ohio Republican Rep. Jim Jordan, that should disqualify her from being commander in chief.
I ve said all along I m for the nominee, for Mr. Trump, but we also have to remember when you compare Mr. Trump s positions with Secretary Clinton s, there s a big difference, said Jordan, to Chris Cuomo on CNN s New Day program.SEE ALSO: CIA GATEKEEPER?
CNN s Chris Cuomo says Americans are criminals for reading WikiLeaks Clinton email dumpIn order to cover-up 2011-2012 US gun-running through Libya and into Syria, and to help deflect another scandal away from Democratic Party candidate Hillary Clinton, the White House turned again to Obama appointee Attorney General Loretta Lynch, who then ordered the DOJ to drop all charges against the State Department and CIA middleman and arms dealer, Marc Turi, who brokered many of Washington s illegal weapons deals in Benghazi,.
Federal court records obtained by Politico confirm: The deal averts a trial that threatened to cast additional scrutiny on Hillary Clinton s private emails as Secretary of State, and to expose reported Central Intelligence Agency attempts to arm rebels fighting Libyan leader Moammar Qadhafi.
The fact that CNN and its media operative Chris Cuomo did not pursue this clear scandal of a politicized DOJ working to whitewash illegal US government activities in Benghazi proves that CNN is not interested in journalism and more interested in protecting those guilty parties within the establishment.Watch as Congressman Jordan knocks back media gatekeeper Cuomo when the CNN host tries desperately to deflect away from any accountability by Hillary Clinton and the White House https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kWn23jxe630.
Have CNN s production ranks been infiltrated and taken over by CIA operatives?
One would think so, judging by how they covered this, and other important stories.How long can CNN and their media operatives like Chris Cuomo keep up this pseudo media facade?READ MORE LIBYA NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Libya FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV