On Tuesday morning, CNN Carol Costello completely shut down an interview when a conservative guest (and passionate Donald Trump supporter) went off on a ridiculous rant about Hillary Clinton.The CNN Newsroom With Carol Costello interview started to go south toward the end when one of Costello s guests, Trump fan and Newsmax host Steve Malzberg, tried to derail a discussion about the Republican front runner s misogyny and sexist rhetoric by targeting Clinton and her husband.
Malzberg bragged about the business mogul s approach with women: When you get one-on-one, especially if it s Hillary Donald Trump will go places nobody is willing to go, where the media at this point isn t willing to go.
Bringing up Clinton s women who say they were intimidated by Hillary.
Having them come forward and speak.
A litany of issues that you can t even imagine.
Costello interrupted Malzberg and said, I m thinking that might not be a winning argument for Donald Trump right at this moment.
Which is absolutely correct, considering that Trump has been pummeled for his recent comments that women should be punished for seeking abortions.But Malzberg foolishly continued on, even though Costello s objections were backed up by fellow guest Judson Phillips (who is a Ted Cruz supporter).
Malzberg added: Do you know how many young women in this country don t even know that Bill Clinton was impeached?
No.
Maybe they ve heard of Monica Lewinsky.
They don t know the women that have accused Bill Clinton of sexual improprieties and that say they have been threatened and intimidated by Hillary Clinton.
Then, Malzberg decided to bring up another truly bizarre talking point Clinton s involvement in an old child abuse court case from 1975.
Malzberg started: A girl who was raped by a pedophile that Hillary Clinton bragged about getting off.
Shocked that Malzberg would even mention this, Costello started to shut him down, saying, Oh, come on.
Malzberg cried, Wait, wait, let me finish!
while Costello refused to entertain the conversation.
He argued: What do you mean?
You don t want to hear it?
That Hillary Clinton is on tape bragging about, as a lawyer getting off on a technicality.
That woman now says, Hillary ruined my life.
That s not fair.
Costello had had enough of the insane conversation, and said, I m going to leave it there, and goodbye.
Thanks for joining me before ending the interview abruptly.
You can watch the awkward moment unfold below, at about the 5:45 mark:In Clinton s memoir, Living History, Clinton addressed that 1975 case, confessing that she had only been out of law school for two years when she was assigned that case.
She said that although she didn t feel comfortable with the case, she couldn t very well refuse the judge s request.
Clinton knew she had an ethical and legal obligation to defend him to the fullest extent of the law , and did her best.
After that case, Clinton went on to set up Arkansas first rape hotline.Featured image via screencapture