Over the weekend, the Trump Administration implemented one of their most terrifying campaign promises, the Muslim ban.
He did it via Executive Order, and framed it as a travel ban from seven supposedly dangerous Muslim-majority countries.
When Trump s hammer dropped, scores of people were detained and questioned for no good reason in airports and other ports of entry around the nation.
Many were legal residents, green card holders, those with legal visas and refugee status, and other people who had been thoroughly vetted and had every right to enter this country without incident.The backlash was swift, as protests erupted organically and in massive numbers at major airports everywhere.
The ACLU asked for lawyers to volunteer to help these people, and they did.
Finally, U.S. District Court Judge Ann Donelly issued an emergency stay on Trump s racist travel ban, but it still took hours to get customs officers and border patrol agents to comply.
Well, now Trump has been hit with another blow to his bigoted order, as Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly has issued a statement saying that those with legal residency will not be kept from entering this nation.
The statement reads:WASHINGTON In applying the provisions of the president s executive order, I hereby deem the entry of lawful permanent residents to be in the national interest.Accordingly, absent the receipt of significant derogatory information indicating a serious threat to public safety and welfare, lawful permanent resident status will be a dispositive factor in our case-by-case determinations.So there, Trump.
I dare you to try to go around Homeland Security and reverse this provision.
What you and your administration are doing is unconstitutional, and, more importantly, it is un-American.
Now, listen to the Homeland Security Secretary, and to everyone else who is telling you that this is unlawful and wrong, and stop this bullshit.Hopefully, if the sycophants around Trump won t pull the trigger and stop this madness, the Constitution will hold, and we can somehow stop this crazy agenda via the law.
In the meantime, #RESIST.Featured image via Amanda Edwards/Getty Images