Donald Trump can barely go a day without saying or doing something truly offensive to women.
Further pushing away women voters (as he has been successfully doing during his entire campaign), Trump decided to make light of sexual abuse over the weekend by comparing the United States relationship with China to rape.Trump made these misogynistic comments at a rally on Sunday, where he said: We can t continue to allow China to rape our country, and that s what they re doing.
It s the greatest theft in the history of the world.
Hardly an appropriate comparison; the rape Trump is talking about is the trade deficit between the two countries and anyone could agree that a sexually violent act is a truly disgusting way to describe an economic relationship between nations.
Nearly as soon as Trump spewed those shameful, disrespectful words, he began receiving massive backlash from advocates against sexual violence.Sen.
Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), who has been heavily involved in addressing rape on college campuses and introduced the International Violence Against Women Act, was one of the first to shut the Republican frontrunner down.
She said: When you use a violent and heinous crime like rape as a metaphor, it is an affront to all sexual assault survivors.
Donald Trump should find another way to express himself.
Colleen Daly, a spokeswoman for the group End Rape on Campus, added: Using the word rape to describe anything other than sexual violence trivializes the experience of survivors.
The statement perpetuates our cultural indifference to rape and desensitizes us to all forms of sexual violence.
In just one sentence, Trump has disrespected 300,000 people that s roughly how many people are sexually assaulted in the United States every year.
This isn t even the first time Trump has been completely insensitive about rape.
Trump has previously been accused of raping his ex-wife Ivana, and his lawyer defended The Donald by making the despicable and completely false argument that you cannot rape your spouse.
The truth is that over half of all women that report being raped say that their partner was the perpetrator and Trump and his lawyer single-handedly tried to invalidate that reality.You can watch Trump make his disgusting rape comments below:It s no secret that Trump, with his long history of being a misogynist and disrespecting women, is having trouble winning over women voters.
If his sexist comments about Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton playing the woman card didn t turn more female voters away, his comments about rape surely will.
Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.) pointed out Trump s problem with women perfectly: Whether it s attacking women or minorities his vulgar remarks have no place in our political discourse.
Women are watching and they don t like what they see.
Hopefully women will continue to show Trump that misogyny will not be tolerated by refusing to vote for him.Featured image via Joe Raedle / Getty Images