Wake up world!
There is a movement by the Left to remove God from our lives.
When one of the most popular and beloved stars in the world start referring to Beyonce as Jesus Christ maybe it s time to start paying attention to the celebrities your kids are listening to or paying to see in concert.
Some might call the suggestion that Beyonce and her racist husband Jay Z have ties to the illuminati and Satan worship movement over-the-top, while many may see some cause for concern over allowing their children to support these trashy celebrities.
And we haven t even touched upon her most recent Super Bowl appearance where Beyonce, dressed in Black Panther militant attire debuted the racist, cop-bashing song from her new album.Pop singer Adele made some amazing and blasphemous comments while performing at the Forum in Copenhagen, Denmark on Tuesday as she stopped mid-show to give a shout-out to Beyonce.
Beyonc is the most inspiring person I ve ever had the pleasure of worshipping, she wrote.
Her talent, beauty, grace and work ethic are all in a league of their own.
I appreciate you so much!
Thank god for Beyonc X. Ye shall make you no idols nor graven image, neither rear you up a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 26:1 (KJV)Adele went on to refer to Beyonce as Jesus Christ , but only after inserting one of the foulest expletives deleted you could possibly imagine in the middle of the Lord s Name.
Nice to know what Adele thinks of the same Jesus that lets her breathe His air, and allows her to wake up every day.Before her concert, Adele posted a photo to Instagram showing her hugging a poster of Beyonc , and wrote that she was speechless, presumably over the singer s latest album.Beyonce freely admits being possessed by a spirit she calls Sasha Fierce, and has mentioned her time and again in interviews over the span of multiple years.
Watch the video below for a graphic look at the demonic spirits that guide Beyonce and her golden career.You be the judge:This is the type of Godless trash that your kids are exposed to each and every day of their lives.
You can t stop them from listening to it when they are outside your home, but you can use it as an opportunity to teach your kids what blasphemy is, and why they should never do it.Adele got it right, though, when she said thank god for Beyonce referring to the little g god of this world, otherwise known as Satan.
It is he that brings you the adoring crowds, the cheering fans, the drugs, booze, sex and the incredible riches you now enjoy so much.Via: NowTheEndBeginsBesides being a racist, her godless side and her attraction to our godless President all makes sense: