Paul Ryan sat down for an interview with USA Today on Wednesday.
During the interview, the House Speaker revealed his thoughts on President Obama s final State of the Union speech.
It was made immediately clear in the interview that Ryan loathed a lot of what President Obama had to say.
Ryan was so upset with one point in Obama s speech that he said it degrades the presidency.
Ryan was mad the President Obama had mentioned how the hatred towards others that Donald Trump is fanning and exploiting for political gain is hurting the United States.
In case you missed it, here is the part of President Obama s speech that Ryan is referring to: We need to reject any politics that targets people because of race or religion.
This isn t a matter of political correctness.
It s a matter of understanding what makes us strong.
The world respects us not just for our arsenal; it respects us for our diversity and our openness and the way we respect every faith.His Holiness, Pope Francis, told this body from the very spot I stand tonight that to imitate the hatred and violence of tyrants and murderers is the best way to take their place.
When politicians insult Muslims, whether abroad or our fellow citizens, when a mosque is vandalized, or a kid is called names, that doesn t make us safer.That s not telling it like it is.
It s just wrong.
It diminishes us in the eyes of the world.
It makes it harder to achieve our goals.
And it betrays who we are as a country.
President Obama received a well-deserved standing ovation for that small piece of political sanity.So why is Ryan so mad?
Well, he says that agrees with President Obama, saying that Putting a religious test on anybody coming to this country is wrong, but goes on to say that President Obama is wrong for commenting on the politics of the Republican Party.
I think it sort of degrades the presidency to then talk about primary politics in the other party, during primaries.
That s not what presidents ought to be talking about in State of the Union addresses, Ryan said.
Speaking up for our values and speaking up for our beliefs is one thing.
But kind of wading into the primary politics of the other party is just not really what presidents ought to do.
If this were a normal primary election, Ryan might have a point.
However, this is not a normal election and Trump is hurting the United States without actually being in any office.
Trump was even called out during the Republican response when governor of South Carolina, Nikki Haley said, Some people think that you have to be the loudest voice in the room to make a difference.
A statement that could easily be seen as a chastisement of Trump for his refusal to keep his racism on the down low, rather than for being racist to begin with.This all boils down to the Republican establishment being angry and scared over the fact that Trump has the Party s racist base out of the shadows.
Now that they are exposed, they can be criticized for it, at their expense.
President Obama did that in a super classy way, wrapped in a message that draws on the better ideals of the United States.You can watch the interview, in full, below.Featured Image Credit: Screenshot via YouTube