So Bill Clinton wants a third term so much that he s coming out to battle Trump.
Bringing Bill Clinton in to fight Hillary s battles could be a double edged sword.
She might gain some momentum but it s hard to believe that Trump won t come after them with some zingers.
The problem with the zingers is that they might earn Hillary some sympathy from the voters.
I say that she should fight her own battles but don t you know Bill would love to be sitting in the White House a year from now A new and more combative phase of Hillary Clinton s presidential campaign opens next month when she sends her husband out to stump for her in important early states.Waiting for him will be businessman Donald Trump, the Republican front-runner.The former president has been a low-key figure since Mrs. Clinton entered the race for the Democratic nomination in April, offering private advice and helping her raise money at closed-door fundraisers.
In January, the campaign intends to showcase him in public forums in Iowa and New Hampshire, two states where the front-runner is locked in a tight race against Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.Speaking to supporters recently, Mrs. Clinton described her husband as a secret weapon.
Throwing Mr. Clinton into the mix could further escalate the rhetoric between the Trump and Clinton campaigns.
In the 2008 presidential race, the former president would bristle at criticism directed at his wife and got in hot water when he suggested Barack Obama s victory in the South Carolina primary was less significant because of the large African-American vote.This past week saw back-and-forth volleys over whether comments Mr. Trump made about Mrs. Clinton were sexist.
He said Mr. Obama schlonged her in the 2008 race and said her brief absence from a recent Democratic debate stage, when she was reportedly using the restroom, was disgusting.
In an interview with the Des Moines Register, Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Trump has demonstrated a penchant for sexism.
That drew a response from Mr. Trump on Twitter: Hillary, when you complain about a penchant for sexism, who are you referring to.
I have great respect for women.
In capital letters he then wrote, BE CAREFUL!
Asked what Mr. Trump meant, his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, said: Mr. Trump speaks for Mr. Trump and his tweets speak for themselves.
And he s very clear about what those tweets say.
Another Trump spokeswoman, Katrina Pierson, suggested in an interview with CNN that the Trump campaign intends to make Mr. Clinton s behavior an issue should Mrs. Clinton pursue this point.
Mr. Clinton, during his presidency, paid $850,000 to settle a sexual harassment case brought by Paula Jones stemming from an encounter when he was governor of Arkansas.
His affair with then-White House intern Monica Lewinsky led to his impeachment by the U.S. House in 1998.
He was acquitted by the Senate the following year.
Hillary Clinton has some nerve to talk about the war on women and the bigotry toward women when she has a serious problem in her husband, Ms. Pierson told CNN.
Representatives for Mr. Clinton and the Clinton campaign declined to comment.Mrs.
Clinton holds a commanding lead among Democrats nationally, but polling shows the contests in Iowa and New Hampshire are up for grabs.
Losses in both states could potentially alter the dynamics of a race she is dominating.In a conference call with supporters this past week, Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta said that Mrs. Clinton was in a dog fight in New Hampshire.Via: WSJ