Florida Governor Rick Scott isn t up for re-election.
His creepy, Skeletor-like appearance is secured through 2018.
His flip-flopping political ideologies, war on women s health care and ridiculous rules forbidding state workers from so much as saying the words climate change aren t going anywhere.
His refusal to expand Medicaid because his own state s failures serve as some kind of an imaginary warning sign is set in stone.Why, then, did the most powerful man in the Sunshine State feel it necessary to have a YouTube ad produced attacking the woman who recently called him out for being an a**hole?
Because he is an a**hole, why else?
Poor Ricky decided to go the route of butthurt little toddler who was scolded by his mother in public, causing him to hold his breath until someone made it right.His PAC obliged, of course, most likely fearful that he would don his Grim Reaper outfit and send them to the depths of hell with a touch from his evil sickle.
Let s Get Working produced a one-minute video, naming the woman the Latte Liberal and attacking her for sitting around coffee shops complaining and demanding public assistance.
In case you haven t seen the interaction between them, enjoy.
Crypt-Keeper Scott could only stand there and take credit for the economy recovering from a recession his state s housing market bubble helped create with that disturbing smile on his face that is rumored to consume the souls of small children and fluffy kittens:Scott answers her criticism with We ve a million new jobs.
Yes, that s true.
Unfortunately, far too many of those jobs will serve to lift unemployed people up and dump them into the Medicaid gap of income between qualifying for Medicaid and subsidies for the Health Care Marketplace.
Scott didn t have anything to say about the signing of archaic abortion laws and deep budget cuts to any clinic that provides any abortion services, including Planned Parenthood.That video has gone viral, with more than 2 million views, and for poor little Ricky, that just couldn t stand.
He felt the need to release this attack on a woman who clearly had the interests of the average person in mind when she gave him a piece of her mind:The answer to criticism from a Republican Governor is about as stereotypical as can be nowadays: The ad s narrator calls her names and dumps rhetoric about how many jobs have been created in a state whose economic growth and unemployment numbers basically mirror that of the rest of the country.Then they find it more appealing to attack her political views rather than address the issue of healthcare.
Because all those people who want silly things like affordable ways to see a doctor are just lazy whiners looking for public assistance.Rick Scott, as usual, is completely disconnected from the reality of the people he serves.
Featured image from screen capture