We all know by now that Hillary Clinton will morph into whatever she needs to be to win votes to get back to the White House.
Here s EXHIBIT 1 on just how far she ll go While speaking to a group of donors last February, Hillary mocked Bernie Sanders supporters and admitted the free college and free healthcare are just a ploy to win the votes of millennials The Intercept had this to say about Clinton s flip flopping:Clinton has been inconsistent in the past about espousing political labels.
She has at times touted herself as stalwart liberal.
For instance, she said last July: I take a backseat to no one when you look at my record in standing up and fighting for progressive values.
But a few months later, she told a group in Ohio: You know, I get accused of being kind of moderate and center.
I plead guilty.
AUDIO OF CLINTON MOCKING BERNIE SUPPORTERSCLINTON: Some are new to politics completely.
They re children of the Great Recession.
And they are living in their parents basement.
They feel they got their education and the jobs that are available to them are not at all what they envisioned for themselves.
And they don t see much of a future.
I met with a group of young black millennials today and you know one of the young women said, You know, none of us feel that we have the job that we should have gotten out of college.
And we don t believe the job market is going to give us much of a chance.
So that is a mindset that is really affecting their politics.
And so if you re feeling like you re consigned to, you know, being a barista, or you know, some other job that doesn t pay a lot, and doesn t have some other ladder of opportunity attached to it, then the idea that maybe, just maybe, you could be part of a political revolution is pretty appealing.
So I think we should all be really understanding of that and should try to do the best we can not to be, you know, a wet blanket on idealism.
We want people to be idealistic.
We want them to set big goals.
But to take what we can achieve now and try to present them as bigger goals.