As Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau continues to prove that he s an all-around amazing person, he s become admired far beyond Canada s borders.Earlier this week, Trudeau was confronted by some very passionate Americans while stopping at a deli in New York City, which Trudeau was visiting to announce that Canada would seek a UN Security Council seat in 2021.
Having spotted the Prime Minister and desperate to escape the horrifying U.S. presidential election, these Americans spoke for many of us when they approached Trudeau and asked, Could you run for president here?
And why wouldn t they want him to help rescue us from the possibility of Republican front runner Donald Trump?!
He s the exact opposite: he s already increased taxes on the wealthy, welcomed Syrian refugees into his country, become an outspoken feminist and is just as interested in climate change as President Barack Obama.
The prospect of President Trump is such a threat, that another candidate in addition Democrat candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders would be a tremendous relief.Trudeau gently explained to those two Americans why a presidential run wasn t a possibility for him: It s very simple, I m not American-born.
But these Americans weren t ready to take no for an answer.
One of them quickly countered, Ted Cruz can do it.
Trudeau reminded them that Cruz was born as an American because although Cruz was born in Canada, his mother was an American citizen.Then Trudeau s admirers began to get desperate.
One of the men said, All our guys are so bad, you ve gotta believe us.
We ve met em all they re so terrible.
Please.
His companion added, They re boring, weird.
We have to settle for them.
Please.
Trudeau stood firm and said, You know what, I have tremendous confidence in the American people.
Then, both men literally dropped down to their knees and pleaded with Trudeau: We ll do anything.
We re begging you.
We re literally begging you.
Trudeau simply responded, I don t know if you noticed, but I actually have a job, and it s a pretty good one.
He then patted one of the kneeling men on the back and continued on his way.This just happened to @JustinTrudeau in a NYC cafe: @cnn @ABC @HuffingtonPost @FoxNews pic.twitter.com/BuceWMnGge Stephen Ward (@_stephenward) March 17, 2016Here s another view:Justin Trudeau dans un resto de Manhattan.
Ces 2 Am ricains le supplient de se lancer dans la course pr sidentielle!
pic.twitter.com/QgrrEdVaIj Marie-Jo lle Parent (@mariejoelle) March 17, 2016CBC News believe it s possible that the two men in the clips are actually pranksters that have shown up at other U.S. presidential campaign events (putting the statement We ve met em all into context).
The duo resembles the two men who wore Nazi-like armbands to a Trump event (with a pro-Trump logo instead), a man who interrupted a Marco Rubio rally to accuse the Florida senator of stealing his girlfriend, and a man who sat behind Hillary Clinton with a Settle for Hillary.
Whether or not this was a stunt, it very much reflects where America is at right now.
Most of us are looking to anyone who could save this country from Donald Trump and judging from the amount of supporters Trump has gathered, we wish we had as much faith in our fellow Americans as Trudeau does.
Featured image via video screen capture