A Louisiana state representative introduced legislation that would ban strippers who are over the age of 28 or who weigh more than 160 pounds.According to local news reports Rep. Kenneth Havard, a Republican representing Jackson, introduced the legislation in response to an earlier measure which would prevent strip clubs from hiring women under the age of 21.Havard proposed an amendment to the bill, imposing age and weight restrictions for women working as strippers in the state.Many of the state s male lawmakers responded to Havard s bill with disturbingly sexist actions and comments.Several male lawmakers can be seen on this video tossing around dollar bills, while others can be heard laughing at the proposal.After coming under fire from Rep Nancy Landry, who asked if the amendment was meant to imply that women over a certain age or weight were not fit to dance, Havard replied that he was just trying to make sure they don t hurt each other.When asked if he believed the amendment was offensive, Havard quickly withdrew it.Rep.
Julie Stokes took to the floor to slam her male colleagues in the state house, saying: Looking out over this body, I ve never been more repulsed to be part of it.
After calling out fellow lawmakers on what she described as a history of disrespectful behavior, Stokes went on to say: You know I suggest that everyone in here look around at their own bodies and their own daughters.
Stokes continued: I think we need to put an end to this.
I hear derogatory comments about women in this place regularly.
I hear and I see women get treated differently than men and I m going to tell you what, you gave me a perfect forum to talk about it right now.
It has got to stop.
That was utterly disrespectful and disgusting.
Havard claims that the proposed amendment was a joke.When asked if he felt that he should apologize for his conduct on the house floor, Havard responded: I don t know if I ll ever apologize for being politically incorrect.
It s just not in my nature to do that.
Political correctness has, in my opinion, ruined the country.
Here s more on this story from News TV: Image via video screen capture