A Grand Jury in Texas realized who the real criminals are, and Fox News isn t happy about it.On Monday, a Houston Grand Jury chose to indict two anti-abortion activists from the right-wing group Center for Medical Progress (CMP) for their involvement in an investigation of Planned Parenthood that led to the release of repeatedly debunked videos the CMP secretly filmed while posing as employees of the women s health organization.The videos allegedly show Planned Parenthood employees selling fetal body parts when in reality they were only discussing reimbursement of transportation costs to get the cells to researchers.
Planned Parenthood wasn t actually selling baby parts at all.Despite that, Texas Republicans ordered a court to indict the women s health organization, instead the Grand Jury slapped CMP boss David Daleiden and CMP employee Sandra Merritt with their own indictment, charging them with tampering with government documents and trying to purchase organs illegally, both of which are felonies.
The CMP employees also used fake IDs to infiltrate Planned Parenthood.Thus far, Planned Parenthood has been cleared of any wrongdoing by a congressional investigation as well as several state investigations.But that didn t stop Fox legal analyst Andrew Napolitano from throwing a temper tantrum about the indictment.During an appearance on Fox & Friends on Tuesday, the former judge weighed in without having seen the actual indictment itself, claiming that the Grand Jury indicted the wrong people and were somehow led astray by the prosecuting attorney.The CMP employees, he said, should be considered bona fide journalists running a legitimate investigation, even though they aren t journalists at all.
They re really seriously pro-life people wanting to expose how government dollars are being used by Planned Parenthood, Napolitano said.
The tapes came out, there s a big uproar.
He then accused Planned Parenthood of using tax dollars to kill babies and sell their body parts, even though such use of funds are prevented by the Hyde Amendment.
Furthermore, abortion services only amount to 3 percent of the services Planned Parenthood provides and it has already been established by legal and medical experts that Planned Parenthood was not doing anything wrong in the tapes.Napolitano also made some rather serious accusations against Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson, suggesting that she turned the jury against CMP instead of getting the jury to automatically indict Planned Parenthood regardless of the evidence or lack thereof like a real Republican is supposed to do.
The grand jury does not turn around and indict your witnesses, the people who brought you the case, without the prosecutor wanting this to happen!
So, why would this prosecutor, appointed by Governor Perry, a former judge, a Republican woman, why would this prosecutor want to do this other than to send a message like, I might be a Republican but leave Planned Parenthood alone ?
In the end, Napolitano called the indictment a political hit job while continuing to defend Daleiden and Merritt as journalists who did nothing wrong since the government uses the same techniques for catching criminals all the time.Here s the video via YouTube.Clearly, Napolitano has lost his damn mind and demonstrates why he shouldn t have ever been allowed to be a judge in the first place.
These CMP employees do not work for the government nor are they employed by a media organization.
They are activists who forged government documents and tried to buy fetal body parts that Planned Parenthood was never actually trying to sell.
Therefore, CMP broke the law, not Planned Parenthood.
In addition, just because the prosecuting attorney is a Republican, it doesn t mean Planned Parenthood isn t entitled to a fair investigation.
Napolitano is whining because he thinks there should have been an automatic indictment just because the attorney is Republican and the investigation took place in Texas.
In fact, it took place in the very city CMP conducted the sting operation.
The true political hit job would have been if Napolitano had his way.However, the bottom line is that the Grand Jury did their job based on the evidence presented to them and they chose to indict CMP and exonerate Planned Parenthood.
The legal system worked despite how much Napolitano and other conservatives want it to be rigged.Featured image via Fox News screenshot