Harry Reid is frightened, as all Americans should be.
Donald Trump is about to receive security briefings, and with Trump s apparent complete inability to censor himself, and with his apparent ties to Russia, that s a very dangerous thing.
Reid wants Trump to get fake security briefings.
How would the CIA and the other intelligence agencies brief this guy?
How could they do that?
I would suggest to the intelligence agencies, if you re forced to brief this guy, don t tell him anything, just fake it, because this man is dangerous, Reid said in an interview with The Huffington Post Wednesday afternoon.
Fake it, pretend you re doing a briefing, but you can t give the guy any information.
This guy, he s part of a foreign power, Reid continued.
We knew he liked Putin before this, but this is quite ridiculous.
While Trump s big mouth has long been a matter of concern when it comes to the security briefings, we ve known for a long time that Trump s top advisor, Paul Manafort, is in bed with the Russians.
But more recently on Wednesday, as a matter of fact Trump asked Russia to hack us again and find Hillary Clinton s missing emails.
Trump denies he does any business in Russia, but as Mother Jones reports, that might be because of Russia.
Trump has been trying to open the Russian market since before the Soviet Union fell.
In other words, Republicans, Trump was trying to do business with our enemies, the Commies.Reid fell short of calling Trump a traitor, but he does compare it to modern history s biggest political scandal: Watergate.
I think Watergate was something that people understood.
It was wrong, morally wrong, for the president of the United States to be involved in such trivia, he said.
What Trump is talking about is much worse than Watergate.
Absolutely.
Trump hit back with his typical I know you are but what am I?
answer.
He wants Hillary Clinton to be prevented from receiving security briefings.
I have a real problem when Hillary Clinton, who gives open access to a phony server, is allowed to get these [classified] briefings.How does Hillary Clinton get a national security briefing, when she s been probably hacked?
Source: Real Clear PoliticsTrump doesn t seem to understand that what Clinton did was nowhere near what he is engaging in as we speak.
Harry Reid is right.
Trump is dangerous.
If they brief him, they should tell him nothing.Featured image via Alex Wong at Getty Images.