Donald Trump just broke his biggest promise to his supporters in a BIGLY way.During his speech in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania on Saturday, the Republican nominee listed some of the things he plans to do in his first 100 days in office if he is elected to the presidency on November 8th.One of those things is a draconian anti-immigration policy that includes deporting millions of immigrants, whom Trump called criminals and killers, back to Mexico.
He also said he would cut off funding to cities that give immigrants sanctuary.But his main point, as usual, was all about his damn wall along the Mexican border.Trump has repeatedly declared that Mexico will pay for this massive structure, which experts estimate will cost up to $25 billion.But during his speech, Trump changed his tune in a way that suggests America will actually be picking up the tab and merely hoping that Mexico will reimburse us for the cost.
The End Illegal Immigration act fully funds the construction of a wall on our southern border, Trump said.
Don t worry about it.
Remember I said that Mexico is paying for the wall.
However, he then added this remark.
With the full understanding that the country of Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such a wall, okay?
Here s the video via YouTube.
Trump s remarks on the wall are at the 32:46 mark.In other words, America will be paying for Trump s wall if he becomes president, NOT Mexico.Because in order for there to even be a need for Mexico to reimburse us, it means America would have to pay for the wall first.
And that means American taxpayers would be on the hook.But just like his insistence that Mexico will pay for the wall outright, Trump has no way of forcing Mexico to reimburse us either.
So Trump just promised to INCREASE the national debt by billions of dollars within his first 100 days.In short, the central promise Trump made to his supporters has just gone up entirely in smoke.The question is are Trump s supporters too dumb to notice that their hero just admitted that he has been lying to them this whole time?
Probably not.Featured Image: Screenshot