It s hard to believe, but Donald Trump does have a sizable amount of supporters who agree with his ideas on immigration and guns.
Unsurprisingly, one of those people is Ann Coulter.
A racist in her own regard, she falls perfectly into Trump s fan base.After the shooting massacre at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, Coulter tweeted out: To my gay friends: Please consider the possibility that Hillary s immigration policies might get you killed.
See Trump s speech today.
To my gay friends: Please consider the possibility that Hillary's immigration policies might get you killed.
See Trump's speech today.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) June 13, 2016Okay, first, what gay person would be her friend?
And before you get offended in any regard to that question (you know who you are) I m a lesbian and find Coulter repulsive on every level.
Which leads to the bigger question what person, in general, would be her friend?During his speech, Trump of course spent time doubling-down on his racist and Islamophobic remarks that Muslims should be banned from immigrating to the United States.Does Coulter (and Trump) not even recognize the fact that the shooter (whose name I ll never mention, because that s what he wanted) was actually born in the United States, and was able to access his arsenal of weaponry and ammunition because of Florida s, and the United States, lax gun laws?
Just like almost every shooter before him, and the only way to truly combat this sort of issue is to try to prevent them from happening in the first place.You can t always change a mindset, but you sure as hell can try to prevent a potential terrorist from owning a gun.The thing is, this is just Ann Coulter being Ann Coulter.
She s a bigot and she s proud to be a bigot, and she doesn t care if you think she s a bigot.
She s an isolationist who seems to think white people should reign supreme.It s just amusing to think that she wants us to believe she has gay friends.
If, however, she really does have gay friends, they should probably realize they re friends with a bigot.Featured Photo by Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images Twitter