When Kellogg pulled its advertising from the white nationalist website known as Breitbart, they and their followers decided Kellogg was evil for this and called for a boycott.
Breitbart s editor-in-chief, Alexander Marlow, even said: [T]o blacklist Breitbart News in order to placate left-wing totalitarians is a disgraceful act of cowardice.
Or it s standing up for the rights and dignity of the people Breitbart regularly targets, but hey, they aren t exactly known for their ability to see reality.
It seems, though, that their war against Kellogg is now backfiring.
Vanguard, 3M and AARP are leaving now, too.And others pulling their ads from Breitbart include Nest Labs, Earthlink, ModCloth and Allstate.
Many companies ads are placed automatically on websites through third parties, but those that are leaving have taken steps to blacklist Breitbart.In short, Breitbart fucked up.
They made two major mistakes: The first was when they decided to become the mouthpiece of white supremacy and nationalism, and the second was when they decided to attack one of their biggest advertisers.Advertisers do not like being associated with hate.
It harms their brands.Advertisers also do not like seeing one of their partners attack other advertisers.
It makes them wonder when it ll be their turn in the crosshairs.However, Breitbart seems to be too consumed with their hate of everything to the left of extreme white nationalism to understand this.
They see Kellogg s decision as anti-American, which is absolutely absurd since American businesses have always shifted their interests around for the purpose of protecting their brands.But because the members of the so-called alt-right (read: white nationalists) think they re the most put-upon and persecuted demographic that ever existed in the whole entire history of everything, of course Breitbart calls this anti-American.
It s only nice and patriotic when they re doing this kind of thing.Lee Wilkins, professor of communications at Wayne State University, probably summed up Breitbart s war on Kellog the best by saying that Breitbart was behaving stupidly.
There s a difference between being a conservative site and a white nationalist site.
Breitbart would do well to figure this out.Featured image by Mike Mozart, CC BY 2.0 via Flickr