MSNBC s Chris Hayes has consistently proven to be a strong voice in the liberal movement.
Alongside Rachel Maddow, he is one of MSNBC s most gifted bullshit detectors, capable of sounding the alarm around Republican lies and nonsense wherever it might occur.
That s why it was so disappointing to see him fall into the low-brow dredge of trying to stir up a Clinton hates Obama false narrative to help fan the flames of Democratic in-fighting this election season.On Friday, Hayes used a segment on MSNBC s All In with Chris Hayes to go after Bill Clinton for sounding off-message and out of sync with his wife s campaign.
His show ran a clip of the former president speaking at a recent Hillary rally, and quoted him as saying that the current president (that would be Barack Obama) isn t a change maker.
Hayes: If that s Clinton s winning strategy, she might want to make sure her husband is in the loop.
Bill seemed to go a bit off-message last night in Tennessee while campaigning for his wife.Clinton: She s always making something good happen.
She s the best change maker I ve ever known.
A lot of people say, you don t understand.
It s different now.
It s rigged.
Yeah, it s rigged because you don t have a president who is a change maker.Sounds bad right?Well actually, as legions of disappointed fans pointed out to Hayes throughout the weekend on social media, the clip Hayes showed was painfully out of context.
If MSNBC s editing team had kept it rolling for just a few seconds longer, audiences would have seen that Clinton was channeling President Obama s naysayers, and not speaking for himself.
Just one sentence later, Clinton quite literally ends with a pro-Obama crescendo that has the entire audience applauding.By Monday Hayes seems to have read the writing on the wall (or the mentions in his Twitter feed) and issued an on-air apology and played the entire clip that debunked his off-message narrative.Bill Clinton s supposed criticism of Obama fall apart when you see him add But the President has done a better job than he has gotten credit for, and don t you forget it!
Hayes couldn t help but half-defend his indefensible editing saying it was still arguably true, but concluded by agreeing with his critics.
In cutting off that clip, we didn t allow you the chance to make that judgment for yourself in the full light of context.
We shouldn t have done that.
In full light of the context, the entire point of the segment falls apart.
The better option would have simply been to not run the story at all.
During this divisive time, people are angry enough as it is.
They don t need manufactured scandals to feed the ugliness.Feature image via MSNBC