21st Century Wire says If there is no real terrorist threat, then the thing to do is to create one.
Such is the received wisdom of today s Federal Bureau of Investigation.According to its latest public relations release by the FBI s counter terrorism department, the agency plans to significantly increased its use of stings in order to catch would-be terrorists.
In other words, it s planning to ramp-up its policy of using entrapment in order to organize, recruit, train and even supply materials to budding neophyte terrorists in the US.This should come as no surprise to anyone who has been following these incidents.
In spite the grand announcement, in reality all the FBI has been doing for the last 25 years are just that: stings, stings and more stings FBI Direct: James Comey has spend a lot of time in front of Congress this year.
The logic is astounding, if not insane, but for some reason, this type of antiquated thinking still dominated US federal law enforcement institutions: We re not going to wait for the person to mobilize on his own time line, said Michael B. Steinbach, who leads the F.B.I.
s national security branch.
He added that the F.B.I.
could not afford to just sit and wait knowing the individual is actively plotting.
Since before 9/11, FBI agents have relied on the practice of using informants to pose as jihadi radicals or small arms dealers, in order to excite and recruit fringe members of society into constructive pursuits such as bomb-making, and will often bring them to the scene of a mock terrorists crime before agents leap out from behind the shadows to make a high-profile arrest of the unwitting dupe/suspect.In 2016, most of the recruitment required to assemble these theatrical, state-managed scenarios is done online via friends on social media, as FBI cyber agents look for individuals who appear to be supporting ISIS or Al-Qaeda.
If successful, online grooming transitions to real world meeting, and with any luck blossoms into a contrived terror plot courtesy of the FBI confidential informant.
1993 WTC BOMBER: Ramzi Yousef.Perhaps the best-ever example of a FBI sting resulting in a real terrorist attack is an event which the mindless US mainstream media still wrongly attribute to real terrorists the 1993 World Trade Center Bombing.In this all-FBI-hatched plot, the agency used at least one known informant, a man named Emad Salem, a former Egyptian army officer.
Salem later demonstrated on secret recording he made how the FBI originally asked him to supply the conspirators with harmless powder instead of actual explosive to construct their bomb, but for reasons still (officially) unknown, the FBI chose to allow a real bomb to be deployed at the WTC on the day of the supposed sting .Author Tom Secker at Global Research explains it in the simplest terms: this relatively ragtag group who were inspired by CIA asset the Blind Sheikh and trained by triple agent Ali Mohamed managed to pull off the bombing.
The result was a bomb detonating underneath the WTC and putting thousands of innocent Americans at risk.Still, ever single major US television and newspaper outlet still moronically refers to the 1993 WTC event as a terrorist attack on American soil.
Team America: Fabricated TerrorAccording to the FBI s own records, nearly 70% of (reported) ISIS-linked terrorist prosecutions (not convictions) are being cooked-up via the use of informants and stings/entrapment: Undercover operations, once seen as a last resort, are now used in about two of every three prosecutions involving people suspected of supporting the Islamic State, a sharp rise in the span of just two years, according to a New York Times analysis.
Charges have been brought against nearly 90 Americans believed to be linked to the group.
Back in May, the FBI arrested a man, James Medina, for allegedly for planning an attack on a Miami-area Aventura Turnberry Jewish Center synagogue with an explosive device.
As it turns out, the synagogue was never actually in any real danger as the bomb was a fake sold to him by an FBI undercover agent, before the man was stopped before the man was stopped by FBI agents posing as fellow terrorists who set up a sting operation.
FBI chat-up lines: Are you a Muslim?
Which Mosque do you go to?
Do you know al-Qaeda?
In 2015, one classic exhibit was the frame-up of 20 year old Christopher Lee Cornell, snared in one of the most bogus fake terror plot ever, and yet the US mainstream media couldn t stop gushing over the event as if it were an ISIS-inspired attack , only no attack actually took place.According to David Steele, a 20-year Marine Corps intelligence officer and former-CIA case officer, most US terror plots are cooked by by US authorities: Most terrorists are false flag terrorists, or are created by our own security services.
In the United States, every single terrorist incident we have had has been a false flag, or has been an informant pushed on by the FBI.
In fact, we now have citizens taking out restraining orders against FBI informants that are trying to incite terrorism.
We ve become a lunatic asylum.
Some other similar would-be high-profile terror icons and patsies include: Paris Shooter Amedi Coulibaby (see his incredible informant case here), Ottawa Shooter Zehaf-Bibeau (see his patsy story here), Boston Bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev (see his informant story here), The Underwear Bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab (see his patsy story here), Buford Rogers (read his informant story here), Jerad Miller (read his informant story here), Naji Mansour (read his entrapment story here), Quazi Mohammad Nafis (read his patsy story here), Mohamed Osman Mohamud (read his entrapment story here), and even the infamous OKC Bomber Timothy McVeigh (read his sheep-dipped, patsy story here).In reality, it is the covert culture of Washington DC which does more to promote genuine terrorism, at home and internationally much more than any other single nation state outside of Saudi Arabia and Israel.
Until the major of people realize thisREAD MORE ZANY FBI PLOTS AT: 21st Century Wire Daily Shooter FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK & BECOME A 21WIRE.TV MEMBER HERE