One of the tenets of Christianity is Thou shalt not steal, but, apparently, Jon S. Petersen s pastor never bothered to tell him that.On Monday, Petersen admitted to a federal judge that he has stolen almost all of the money people have donated to World Ambassadors, Ltd., the charitable organization that he has been the president of for years.
He pleaded guilty to one count of filing a false tax return a crime that could lead to a three-year prison sentence, restitution and a $250,000 fine.
The reason for his thievery?
He has a sex addiction:In his plea deal, Petersen admitted that he moved $475,000 in donations from the charity to his personal checking account between 2010 and 2014, draining virtually all of its funding, prosecutors said.
The group had about three dozen contributors annually.
The guilty plea concerned his personal 2013 tax filing, when he failed to report $114,000 diverted from the group as taxable income.
The charge carries up to three years in prison, and Petersen may be required to pay restitution to the group s donors.Petersen said he struggled with a sex addiction over the last decade and used the donations to pay for it.I don t think Jesus would approve of this behavior.More than thirty people donated a total of $476,466 to the organization, and Petersen moved $475,555 of it to his personal accounts.
What s even more alarming is the fact that this wasn t the only money he was using to feed his supposed sex addiction.
He said that he was also using his home s equity and credit cards to pay for it.Think about this for a moment, not just about the Christian hypocrisy, but he probably paid half a million dollars for sex.
Whoah.Now, sex addiction is a real thing and we really shouldn t laugh about it (I know it s hard no pun intended).
According to Recovery Ranch:Sex addiction, also known as hypersexual disorder, is characterized by persistent and escalating sexual thoughts and acts that have a negative impact on the individual s life.
Sex addicts struggle to control or postpone sexual feelings and actions.
Most sex addicts do not know how to achieve genuine intimacy, forming little or no attachment to their sexual partners.
Eventually, the pursuit of sex becomes more important than family, career, and even personal health and safety.Just like any addiction it can take over and destroy someone s life.
If he is telling the truth, that is definitely what happened here.
However, if he is using this as an excuse (which is entirely possible) to cover up his crimes, I hope the judge throws the book at him not the Bible, but that would work too.Find out more about sex addiction here.Featured image via Wdea.am