Donald Trump is paving the way for Russian aggression against Europe and admitted it during an interview with European newspapers.Trump has had a cozy relationship with Putin ever since Russia helped him win the election in November.In fact, that was the consummation of a relationship that began months earlier when Trump started attacking NATO and made it clear that he intends to eliminate sanctions that were slapped against Russia after Putin seized the Crimea from Ukraine.Now Trump is practically inviting Russia to be more aggressive in Putin s pursuit of tyrannical rule.
I said a long time ago that NATO had problems, Trump told the Times of London on Sunday.
Number one it was obsolete because it was designed many, many years ago.
Number two the countries weren t paying what they re supposed to be paying.
Trump then went on to praise Putin and stated his intention to make some good deals with Russia, which apparently involves weakening NATO and Europe as a whole so Russia can attack.To that end, Trump also wants to see the European Union dissolve, which would cause transatlantic chaos not seen since World War II.
People want their own identity, so if you ask me, more countries will leave, Trump remarked when asked about the United Kingdom s regretful vote to exit the EU.In other words, Trump wants Europe to return to the nationalism that divided nations against each other and caused the deaths of millions.
The two World Wars were the reason why the European Union was created in the first place, not to mention the economic benefits both sides of the Atlantic have enjoyed.According to the Washington Post,The full ramifications of a breakdown in transatlantic relations are so extensive they are difficult to total.
U.S. guarantees underpin European security.
The United States and the European Union, with a population of 500 million, are each other s most important trading partner.
For decades, European nations and the United States have worked tightly together on issues of war, peace and trade.
The incoming U.S. president is the first American leader since World War II not to support European integration.
The European Union has long been considered to be in the U.S. interest, because it created a unified market for U.S. businesses, provided a bulwark against communism during the Cold War and helped quell the bloody slaughter that cost U.S. lives, among others, in the first half of the 20th century.
After the breakup of the Soviet Union, the European Union expanded eastward into formerly communist nations, a development that leaders there say helped bring rule of law and stability as they modernized their economies.The only nation that would directly benefit from the fall of NATO and the European Union would be Russia, while America and the various European nations suffer weaker economies and weaker national security.In other words, Trump truly is Putin s puppet and the world is about to become more dangerous because of it.Featured image via screenshot