Former GOP presidential candidate Marco Rubio made several startling comments in a truly humiliating interview on Sunday, in which he actually defended his least favorite Republican rival, Donald Trump.But it wasn t just Rubio s support that was baffling, considering that their vicious battle to win the nomination was full of insults.
It was actually what Rubio said about Trump s racist, grotesque anti-immigration statements that raised eyebrows.
Instead of criticizing those vulgar comments, Rubio defended Trump!During the interview, CNN s Jake Tapper brought up the fact that Trump had been gaining the support of some scary dudes from hate groups .
Rubio insisted that Trump was not a white nationalist, and remarked that the support from racists has been unfortunate.
It s offensive.
And not just against me, but the fact that elements like that are still involved in American politics.
And traditionally a candidate would disavow that and say, I want nothing to do with it, I don t want them as part of my campaign.
Tapper was quick to note that Trump didn t distance himself from his controversial following at all.
Rubio replied: And I didn t like that.
And I said that at the time.
And you know, it is what it is.
Obviously, I don t believe Donald Trump is a white nationalist.
I don t believe that those are his views.
But I do think that it s unfortunate that people like that have found the ability to express themselves in this way in a campaign.
And I didn t like it I just don t really think that there s a place for that in our party and our country.
Rubio then tackled the fact that Trump had made his own racially-charged statements, like the time he called Mexicans rapists.
Rubio said it was an offensive comment and highly inaccurate, but ultimately gave Trump credit for being able to expertly manipulate the media through offending people: Here s the trap you re in.
If you respond to it, [Trump] is getting what he wants.
That s why he s sometime saying this, to dominate the [news] cycle.
I don t give him credit for what he said, but I give him credit for the way that he understands this stuff.Media is a business and it s driven by ratings, and based on your ratings is what you can charge your advertisers.
And so, this content is interesting content.
It s different.
And it s over the top.
And it draws eyeballs and ears to hear what people are saying and see it.
Donald understood that.
Absolutely disgusting.
Being a racist should NEVER be used as a ploy to attract media attention, and supporting this childish tactic is even worse.
Shame on you, Rubio, for not only selling out but for encouraging such behavior.You can watch Rubio come to Trump s rescue below:During the same interview, Rubio also apologized for his attacks on Trump while they were facing off for the nomination, particularly the insults that Trump was most sensitive about his tiny hands.This defense of Trump from Rubio is so pathetic and disappointing, especially because for a while the Florida senator seemed like he was the only GOP candidate that had enough spine to actually go after Trump and give the business mogul a taste of his own medicine.
Now Rubio is no better than Ben Carson and Chris Christie, who were both former candidates that took the humiliating leap to endorse Trump.Featured image via Win McNamee / Getty Images