House Democrats have had it with Donald Trump s unlawful Muslim ban and are planning to fight back against the bigoted executive order.
To make their point loud and clear, they are planning to fight not just through legislation but are also staging a protest in front of the Supreme Court.According to a press release obtained by Addicting Info, Democrats are condemning Trump s Muslim ban as a betrayal of everything the Statue of Liberty and our nation stand for and insist that the order is not only unconstitutional but immoral.
They have vowed to continue pressing for answers and are demanding that the federal court injunction issued last night be honored.
Proving just how important our efforts to resist as citizens really are, the statement said that lawmakers were moved and inspired by the scenes of Americans, including Members of our Caucus, rallying to airports across the nation to demand justice for the men, women and children detained and/or deported under the President s order.
As a result, on Monday night at 6 p.m. Democratic House and Senate members will gather for a press event in front of the steps of the Supreme Court to demand the President withdraw his disreputable executive order.
We are witnessing an historic injustice unfold, and we must keep the pressure on, said the release.In addition, Immigration Subcommittee Ranking Member Zoe Lofgren and others will introduce legislation to rescind the Muslim ban this week.
Dems intend to continue reviewing the president s actions to determine if there are any other legal actions that can be taken to fight the bigoted ban.A high-level source tells Addicting Info that House Dems are engaging outside counsel to file an amicus brief against Trump s illegal Muslim Ban.
We are also exploring all legal options, including an Amicus Brief in support of the ACLU, the statement read.
As Members of Congress, we take a solemn oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Democrats intend to honor that oath by fighting the unconstitutional injustice of the President s Muslim ban.
Donald Trump passed his bigoted and unconstitutional Muslim Ban on Friday.
Over the weekend, people from the seven forbidden countries were detained and deported when they landed at U.S. airports.
Widespread protests broke out and attorneys with the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit.
A temporary stay was granted by a federal judge but it does not seem that it is being followed as intended.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images