Hillary Clinton is making sure that the shockingly racist comments made by Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) don t slip by her supporters.
An email was sent out by the Clinton camp calling out King s bigotry with a subject line that read: This is literally white supremacy.
The fundraising appeal, written by Clinton deputy communications director Christina Reynolds, pointed out that this kind of racism has become synonymous with the Trump campaign.King s comments were widely reported as a textbook example of white supremacy, and it wasn t the first time the Party of Trump has had a disturbing connection to white supremacy in recent months.The campaign email continues, reminding readers of former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke s endorsement of the bigoted billionaire, as well as Trump s failure to disavow the former Grand Wizard and the KKK in general.
The Republican nominee eventually gave a half-hearted condemnation of the infamous hate group and blamed his prior failure to do so on a faulty earpiece.The email also noted Trump s recent anti-Semitic tweet that featured Clinton s picture, on a background of $100 bills, with a Star of David that had the words Most Corrupt Candidate Ever written in it.
We re taking this seriously.
Our country was founded on the idea that we are all created equal, no matter the color of our skin, the faith we practice, or who we love, Reynolds wrote.
We re going to keep calling Trump out on the deplorable ideas he perpetuates, and we re going to keep fighting to win the White House this November not just by a few votes, but by an overwhelming majority to show Trump, white supremacists, and the world in no uncertain terms that here in America, we don t stand for hatred.
During King s appearance on MSNBC Monday night, Esquire s Charlie Pierce pointed out that the overwhelming majority of speakers at the Republican National Convention were white, and the Iowa Republican went full on racist.
This whole business does get a little tired, Charlie.
I would ask you to go back through history and figure out where are these contributions that have been made by these other categories of people you are talking about, where did any other subgroup of people contribute more to civilization?
King asked.Co-host Chris Hayes asked, Than white people?
Than Western civilization itself.
That s rooted in Western Europe, Eastern Europe and the United States of America, and every place where the footprint Christianity settled the world, King said.
That s all of Western civilization.
Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images