After evidence surfaced that suggested Russia had blackmail-worthy dirt on Trump s national security adviser, General Michael Flynn, Flynn was forced to resign on Monday.
Some Americans aren t convinced that that was the real reason, though.
Some are blaming it on the Jews.
Neo-Nazi writers are upset that retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn has resigned from his position as national security adviser.
The anti-Semites are lionizing Flynn as one of our best guys and a true patriot who has been quite critical of the Jews in the past.
They are also lamenting that his resignation is definitely a loss to the Jews and are speculating that he was pushed out by more subversive elements in the White House.
Source: Media MattersIt s not surprising that Flynn supporters would feel this way.
After all, he s one of theirs.The disgraced former national security adviser has repeatedly pushed toxic views.
Last July, Flynn shared a tweet that read in part, Not anymore, Jews.
Not Anymore.
(He later apologized.)
He claimed on Twitter that Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL.
Flynn also endorsed the work of racist author Mike Cernovich, who has frequently pushed white nationalist themes on his Twitter account (many of which he later deleted).
Cernovich has claimed that diversity is code for white genocide, Blacks use guns for murder.
Whites use guns to kill themselves, and Diversity is bad for national security.
The Daily Stormer, which is just one of the Neo-Nazi sites that s gaining popularity since Trump s election, had this to say about Flynn s resignation:This is giving a victory to the kike media.I actually didn t think the block on the travel ban was a loss.
I think that was all part of the plan to get the public stirred up against activist judges, to get ready for the Supreme Court to rule on an even more hardcore version of the Moslem ban.But this.This is definitely a loss.To the Jews.Infostormer, another such site, predicts that more are about to fall:We re going to be keeping a much closer eye on the White House factional struggles in the coming days and weeks, because if my senses are correct, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will likely be the next man attacked for his ties to Russia and Vladimir Putin.The lead-up to the demise of General Flynn was somewhat ignored by us due to the sheer level of nonsense that has been pushed forth by the Lugenpresse lately, but we won t make that mistake again.The Jews are not going to get away with another bullying attack on our regime they will be called out, and they will be defeated if and when they try again.I can t believe I m about to say this, but I hope the Nazis are right about Tillerson.
As for the rest, well, it s not their regime.
The presidency belongs to the American people all of us, even those of us who are Jewish.
If a member of the government is antisemitic or in bed with the Russian government, you d better damned well believe that we will do everything in our power to stop them.Featured image by Mario Tama via Getty Images