Fashion designer Donna Karan is standing by Harvey Weinstein and has suggested his alleged victims may have been asking for it by the way the women act and dress.During a red carpet interview at the Cin Fashion Film Awards on Sunday, the DKNY creator was asked to weigh in on the scandal hours after the disgraced film mogul was fired from his company.Unlike many Hollywood stars and celebs, Karan did not condemn the 65-year-old, who has been accused of sexually harassing multiple women over the span of decades, and instead pointed the finger at his accusers.She told a reporter: I think we have to look at ourselves.
Obviously, the treatment of women all over the world is something that has always had to be identified.
Certainly in the country of Haiti where I work, in Africa, in the developing world, it s been a hard time for women.
To see it here in our own country is very difficult, but I also think how do we display ourselves?
How do we present ourselves as women?
What are we asking?
Are we asking for it by presenting all the sensuality and all the sexuality?
And what are we throwing out to our children today about how to dance and how to perform and what to wear?
How much should they show?
Karan s comments are striking as a legend in the fashion world and having designed women s clothing for decades.
Her comments come as many of Weinstein s former friends, including Judi Dench and Meryl Streep, have denounced the producer based on the bombshell allegations.She added that she knows Weinstein s wife Georgina Chapman and described the couple as wonderful people.
When asked whether Hollywood has been busted , she replied with a smile: I don t think it s only Harvey Weinstein.After Karan s report circulated online, Rose McGowan one of Weinstein s alleged victims, and a vocal opponent of the producer online called her deplorable.
In a tweet on Sunday, McGowan posted a screenshot of this DailyMail.com article with the message Donna Karan you are a DEPLORABLE.
Aiding and abetting is a moral crime.
You are scum in a fancy dress.
McGowan also tweeted this image of herself in her 20 s when Weinstein allegedly sexually assaulted her.Last year, she tweeted under the hashtag #WhyWomenDontReport with the message Because my ex sold our movie to my rapist for distribution .According to The New York Times report that initiated Weinstein s downfall this week, McGowan sued the producer in the 1990s but settled out of court for $100,000.
Daily Mail