With a growing number of Muslim refugees and immigrants living in America who are strict adherents of Sharia Law, it should come as no surprise that female genital mutilation is not so uncommon anymore in many parts of the United States.
It is a felony to perform a clitorectomy on a female in America, but getting caught is the hard part A petition from the womens group Equality Now reveals that immigration has put the United States on a list that will be much more difficult for progressive immigration enthusiasts to cheer.
A massive influx of immigrants from Muslim-populated countries in Africa and the Middle East has led the group to conclude that more than half a million girls in the U.S. are in danger of having their exposed sexual organs skinned from their bodies.The practice is known as female genital mutilation (FGM).The Atlantic describes how the procedure is carried out:It usually involves the complete removal of the clitoris, and often the removal of some of the inner and outer labia.
In its most extreme form infibulation almost all the external genitalia are cut away, the remaining flesh from the outer labia is sewn together, or infibulated, and the girl s legs are bound from ankle to waist for several weeks while scar tissue closes up the vagina almost completely.
A small hole, typically about the diameter of a pencil, is left for urination and menstruation.
The cutting is usually done with a razor, a kitchen knife, or a pair of scissors.
It is rare for any anesthesia to be used.As the United States continues to mail out immigrant visas to countries with hostile and violent attitudes towards women, it will increasingly challenge Americans self-perception of what it means to live in a First World country.Haha Dukureh, an FGM-survivor and founder of the activist organization Safe Hands for Girls, warned that every year thousands of girls here in the United States go through female genital mutilation.
Breitbart NewsA Gwinnett County Muslim man was deported today after female serving 10 years in an American prison (on the American taxpayer dime) for a genital mutilation sentence.
An Ethiopian man convicted of aggravated battery and cruelty to children was removed from the United States on Monday.Khalid Adem, 41, was arrested for using scissors to mutilate the genitals of his 2-year-old daughter.He was deported on Monday after serving 10 years in prison.Adem was an Ethiopian citizen and native when he was living in Gwinnett County, Georgia in 2006.
(He was convicted in 2006, but his wife who turned him in believes the crime was committed in 2001).
His case was drew national attention for being the first criminal conviction in the United States for female genital mutilation (FGM).He became the catalyst for the specific criminalization of FGM under Georgia state law.Female genital mutilation is a federal crime, and any involvement in committing this crime is a human rights violation that results in imprisonment and potential deportation.
(This crime includes doing the procedure within the United States as well as sending women overseas to be cut) .
Jihad Watch