You re gonna be so proud of your country.
We re gonna win so much.
We re gonna win at every level.
We re gonna win so much, you may even get tired of winning.
You may even get so tired of winning, and you ll say, Please, please it s too much winning!
We can t take it anymore.
Mr. President, it s too much!
Candidate Donald Trump, May, 2016President Trump tweeted about an exciting new opportunity for US cattle farmers, as China lifts 14 year ban on American beef imports: After 14 years, U.S. beef hits Chinese market.
Trade deal an exciting opportunity for agriculture.
During his Senate hearing to be confirmed as ambassador to China, then-Gov.
Terry Branstad said he would prefer to serve Iowa beef not cuts from Australia at the U.S. Embassy there.He won t get that wish yet, but the prime rib he slices into Friday when joined in Beijing by U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and Chinese government officials to ceremonially mark the return of U.S. beef to China after a 14-year ban will be from closer to home Nebraska.The meat shipped last week by a South Omaha meatpacker was reported to be the first shipment of U.S. beef to China since 2003 after officials sealed a long-sought trade deal this month.
This is a big deal.
It s definitely very positive news, said Lee Schulz, an Iowa State University Extension livestock economist.But Schulz cautioned overcoming the political hurdles that had prevented U.S. beef exports to China over fears associated with mad cow disease are only the first step.
It will be some time before American beef becomes it s what s for dinner for nearly 1.4 billion Chinese.He described the Chinese market for U.S. beef as in its infancy in terms of its impact on Iowa and U.S. producers and processors.The market today is very different from 2003, according to Chris Freland, executive director of the Iowa Beef Industry Council.
Still, what she saw while visiting China earlier this year makes her believe U.S. beef producers have an exciting opportunity to move into the Chinese market.
There are a lot of people there and a rising middle class who can add beef to their diet, she said.China is projected to become the largest beef market in the world and a major destination for U.S. beef products, according to American Farm Bureau Federation economist Katelyn McCullock.
Adding to the market potential is China s changing taste, McCullock said.In 2003, much of the market there was offal tongues, kidneys and livers, for example.
Today, there has been demand for higher-value muscle cuts or steak.Before China closed the door on U.S. beef, it imported $70 million worth of beef annually, with the United States supplying 80 percent of that.
Today, China imports about $2.6 billion worth of beef every year.
Last year, Chinese beef imports totaled 601,000 tons and demand is expected to increase ninefold in four years.
So if we can even have a portion of that coming back for Iowa producers, that s a celebration for producer profitability, Freland said.For entire story: The Gazette