A desperate Jeb Bush held a campaign rally at a South Carolina golf course on Wednesday, and all his supporters wanted to do was give him advice on how to fix his struggling campaign.Bush was probably hoping to come out swinging as the South Carolina primary approaches, but his worried fans had different concerns.Like a child being advised on how to deal with being bullied, one Bush supporter named Edward Scott told Bush that he should raise the bar and rise above the bullying by Trump because his message is being lost the more Bush gets frazzled by the billionaire mogul.
Your message doesn t resonate with the national community.
I was wondering because of your civility if you could raise the bar in the next session and try to be beyond the bully because I think that s who you are and I think they try to knock you off center.
It appears you do get knocked off center, like anyone would, because of the insults to your family.
I don t think I feel shaken up by the bully, Bush replied.
I m the only guy going after the guy who I believe is hijacking the party.
David Villinger also voiced concern about Trump taking over the race while Bush desperately focuses on attacking him instead of focusing on delivering his own message.
I think the campaign has been co-opted by the P.T.
Barnum of our time.
And I think he is getting you off your good message and all the times that you ve shared with us today.
But I think I would encourage you to emphasize those things.
Indeed, Jeb Bush is currently polling in a distant fourth place behind Trump, who leads the field with 34 percent while Bush only has under 10 percent.Cruz clocks in at second place with 17 percent and Rubio is a close third place with 16 percent.
Clearly, nobody is really all that excited about Jeb.In the end, Jeb Bush not only received advice, he got bad news because South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley endorsed Marco Rubio even after Jeb sent his brother to meet with her.
Jeb could only give reporters some parting sarcasm.
It s all been decided, apparently.
The pundits have already figured it out.
We don t have to go vote.
I should stop campaigning maybe.
And that s probably the best idea Jeb Bush has had throughout his entire campaign.
Featured image from Flickr