New Jersey Governor Chris Christie loves Bruce Springsteen.
The feeling is not mutual.Christie took time out of shilling for Donald Trump to attend a recent Springsteen concert in Brooklyn and while he appeared to have a great time playing air drums over the hits, you could cut the tension with a knife.
Over the years, the governor has been repeatedly called out by Springsteen for his heartless policies and pathological hatred of New Jersey s poor.
It s gotten so bad in the last few years, that Christie did the ultimate betrayal he said his new favorite singer was Bon Jovi.Despite the stab in the back, Christie was seen rocking out in Brooklyn and it was awkward.
Trapped: The Saga of Chris Christie and the George Washington Bridge pic.twitter.com/gddbEZN0ju Jon Schwartz (@jonlschwartz1) April 26, 2016If his dance moves were noticeable, so too was the fact that Springsteen loathes Christie.
The legendary New Jersey singer has reportedly banned Christie from using his songs at his campaign events (a claim Christie vehemently denies, yet adheres to) and has penned an op-ed slamming Christie s devastating budget cuts.
The cuts are eating away at the lower edges of the middle class, not just those already classified as in poverty, and are likely to continue to get worse over the next few years.
A few years later, Springsteen would join Jimmy Fallon in mocking Christie for Bridgegate.
Christie s latest political antics aren t doing him any favors either.
Endorsing Trump, widely seen as a cynical move meant to land him a job in a future Trump administration, and while Springsteen has stayed mostly out of politics in this election so far, there is certainly no love lost between Donald Trump and Bruce Springsteen.
Trump was fighting with him all the way back in 2012.
(Note: Romney went on to lose Ohio.
Badly.
)Why would Ohio listen to Bruce Springsteen reading his lines?
Be careful or I will go to Ohio and @MittRomney will win it!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 19, 2012It s no secret that conservative politicians have a celebrity problem.
While Democrats fight over A-listers (Clinton gets George Clooney, Bernie Sanders gets Spike Lee), Trump s endorsements read like a casting call for Celebrity Big Brother D-list celebs, reality tv show stars, Duck Dynasty guys, Dennis Rodman.No wonder, they rail against Hollywood so much Hollywood wants nothing to do with them.
And sorry Christie, neither does Bruce Springsteen.Featured image via Twitter