An explosive allegation has come out of Tasnim News against Republicans.
The Secretary of Iran s Supreme National Security council said that the recent prisoner exchange between the U.S. and Iran had an attempt made by Republicans to sabotage it when they requested Iran delay release of the prisoners until the eve of the 2016 election.Ali Shamkhani, Secretary of Iran s Supreme National Security Council, released the following statement: In the course of the talks for exchanging prisoners, the Republican rivals of the current US administration who claim to be humanitarians and advocates of human rights sent a message telling us not to release these people (American prisoners) and continue this process (of talks) until the eve of US presidential elections.
However he said we acted upon our independent resolve and moved the process forward.
Source: Tasnim NewsThis is the second time that the allegations have been raised that Republicans requested Americans were to be held hostage by Iran in order to serve their domestic political interests.
The first time came from the suggestion that Republicans conspired with Iran to delay the release of American hostages until Ronald Reagan was inaugurated in 1980.
They were to be rewarded for this by Reagan then selling them weapons.
This was supposedly done to hurt Carter s re-election while allowing Republicans to claim that the act of electing a Republican made our enemies cower in fear.
Iran did end up releasing the hostages 20 minutes after Reagan completed his inaugural address.Now here we are again.
There is an upcoming presidential election, Republican prospects look grim as usual and now they might have gotten caught using the same old trick a second time.
If this turns out to be true, the consequences could destroy the party.One could discount this by saying it s Iran, and we can t believe what they say because they are an enemy.
However, if you look at the fact Republicans have admitted to trying to work with Iran to hurt America before, it seems very plausible.
Republicans tried to sabotage the Iranian peace deal by contacting Iran directly and suggesting that any peace deal would not last after Obama left office.
They have a history of trying to conspire with Iran, for political reasons at home.Republicans are obsessed with hurting this nation, and it s people, in order to create an environment of fear, rage and paranoia.
Only in this mindset would Americans ever want to vote them into power.Featured image from Pinterest