Long may their heaves remind them of just how idiotic they are.A group of West Virginia Republicans reaped what they sowed this week after one of their own brought in some raw milk to drink in celebration of a bill they passed into law weeks ago making raw milk legal to drink across the state.According to the Food And Drug Administration:Milk and milk products provide a wealth of nutrition benefits.
But raw milk can harbor dangerous microorganisms that can pose serious health risks to you and your family.
According to an analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), between 1993 and 2006 more than 1500 people in the United States became sick from drinking raw milk or eating cheese made from raw milk.
In addition, CDC reported that unpasteurized milk is 150 times more likely to cause foodborne illness and results in 13 times more hospitalizations than illnesses involving pasteurized dairy products.Despite this warning, state GOP Rep. Pat McGeehan and others drank the raw milk anyway and became sick afterwards, thus making famed scientist Louis Pasteur roll over in his grave.Pasteur is the French chemist and microbiologist who discovered pasteurization to kill harmful bacteria and microorganisms that cause foodborne sicknesses.
There s definitely some other colleagues that have similar symptoms that I ve been experiencing, McGeehan reported.However, like most times Republicans are wrong, McGeehan and his colleagues are in denial that the milk is the cause of their illness, even though they only began reporting feeling sick AFTER drinking the raw milk that the FDA advises people NOT to drink because it makes people sick.The ill lawmakers say that their Republican colleague Scott Cadle brought in the raw milk and McGeehan happened to be in the hallway when Cadle approached him to share a drink.
[Cadle] caught me in the hallway, offered a cup to me, and you want to try to be a gentleman, McGeehan said.
I had a small sip and walked away and tossed the rest of it.
Gee, if raw milk isn t dangerous why toss it after a small sip, Mr. McGeehan?McGeehan claims that a stomach bug is the real cause of the lawmakers praying to the porcelain God and even made another dubious claim.
I don t think it s any riskier than eating raw oysters or anything like that, McGeehan said of the raw milk.Cue yet another warning from the FDA:You can get seriously ill and even die from eating raw oysters contaminated with Vibrio vulnificus a bacterium commonly found in waters where oysters are cultivated such as the Gulf of Mexico.
Vibrio vulnificus is found in higher concentrations during the summer months as water becomes warmer.Vibrio vulnificus bacteria is not a result of pollution, so although oysters should always be obtained from reputable sources, eating oysters from clean waters or in reputable restaurants with high turnover does not provide protection.Seriously, who elected these dumbasses to political office?Here s the video via WSAZ.The West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources is currently investigating.Featured image via screen capture