While Republicans continue to reveal their true colors by openly complaining about the release of American prisoners in Iran, President Obama is using his latest diplomatic success to teach his critics a lesson in what effective leadership really looks like.Obama had deliberately waited to talk about the hostage exchange until the American prisoners were out of Iran and safe, but upon news that the swap was a success and that the United Nations had certified that Iran was upholding its end of a landmark nuclear disarmament deal, the White House held a press conference that quickly turned into a teachable moment for those who had irresponsibly advocated for war over diplomacy.
This is a good day, because once again we re seeing what s possible with strong American diplomacy, Obama said at the White House.
Yesterday marked a milestone in preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, he noted.
Most of important of all, we achieved this historic progress through diplomacy, without resorting to another war in the Middle East.
And yet, somebody might want to tell the Republican Party that a victory like this without a single shot fired is considered a good thing.
The friends at Fox and Friends were practically despondent when they had to tell their audience that the American prisoners in Iran were coming home.A good day for America is a bad one for Fox.Obama s negotiations were a massive blow to their narrative.For years, Republicans have insisted that the only way to get Iran to listen to the United States is through threats of war.
Infamously, Republican Sen. John McCain ran for president on the platform of bomb, bomb, bomb, Iran.
Even now, certain conservatives regret not being able to send troops into another Middle Eastern conflict.
War is a tough addiction to kick.Nobody knows how much Republicans want war than President Obama.
He s been boxing out the war-mongers for years.
During his comments, he took a dig at those who say war is the only answer.Citing the cooling of tensions with Iran, Obama pointed out that his smart, patient and disciplined approach to the world has yielded results.
America can do and has done big things when we work together, Obama said.
We can lead this world and make it safer and more secure.
But we can only do that if we stop listening to those who think threatening violence will make us look tough.
America has tried that approach for decades and the situation with Iran had only been deteriorating.
The change in recent months cannot be overstated.The nuclear talks have brought a sense of normalcy to relations with the U.S. and Iran, with top officials from each country in somewhat regular communication.
While Obama emphasized that the U.S. continues to have deep concerns about Iran s destabilizing actions in the Middle East and its threats to Israel, he also opened up the prospect of Tehran working more cooperatively with the rest of the world.It s worth noting that those who want war with Iran represent a small minority of Americas mostly Republican politicians and Fox News hosts.
It s not a coincidence that McCain s bomb Iran campaign strategy contributed to his being absolutely smoked by Obama s smart, patient and disciplined one in the election.
It s also not a big secret that Americans are tired of sending young kids off to die in intractable wars in the Middle East.
With the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan finally winding down, it s only those in the GOP who seem eager to embark on a new one.If accomplishing America s goals of neutralizing Iran s nuclear program while avoiding war was the goal and for most of the country, it was then this deal represents a massive success for the country.
For the bloodthirsty, it probably stings a little.
Obama s clearly not sorry.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xABl2Aeaycc]Featured image via White House