So that immigration crisis you never hear about on your evening news?
It s not over.
Not by a long shot.With only a few months left to go before a new president obtains the keys to the Oval Office, the Obama administration released another 6,051 unaccompanied alien children into American communities in the month of October, averaging about 195 kids per day.According to recent stats released by the Executive Office for Immigration Review, only about 45 percent of all immigration cases opened for unaccompanied minors since July of 2014 have been closed.
EOIR data also shows that nearly 40 percent of all illegal alien children ordered to appear before an immigration judge won t show up for their final court hearing.Children who come across the border unlawfully and without a parent or guardian are being released at an alarming rate that corresponds with the increasing number of kids currently being apprehended along the U.S.-Mexico border.
In October alone, Customs and Border Protection reported they apprehended 46,197 illegal aliens crossing into the United States unlawfully via the Southwest U.S. border, including 13,124 members of family units and another 6,754 unaccompanied children.
For entire story: MRCTVWhat has escaped all but a few conversations are the short and long term implications of this flood of children haphazardly being placed in detention or residential settings, or released to family members, and how it can precipitate a fertile recruiting opportunity for gangs such as MS-13 and the 18th Street Gang, who already have assimilation within this diaspora, putting not only domestic but regional security in question.Since 2009, the numbers of unaccompanied alien children up to 17 years old, as they are designated by Customs and Border Protection under the aegis of the Department of Homeland Security, has grown exponentially, with children from Honduras representing the largest diaspora, followed by Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico.
HMSnetThis is an especially heartwarming story for the working American taxpayer who s trying to figure out how they re going to be able to scrape enough extra money together to buy their own children a gift for Christmas.
People like Hillary and Barack, who ve made a fortune as career politicians, can t be bothered with the issues of everyday Americans, they ve got a country to fill with Democrat voters.
The American citizens who actually support these illegal aliens with their tax dollars are not their concern.