The entire nation has been glued to the coverage of fired FBI Director James Comey s testimony all day.
When it was finally over, pundits continued to pick it apart.
Meanwhile, the Republican National Committee claimed victory for Donald Trump in the government s investigation into potential collusion between Team Trump and the Russians.
Trump s own lawyer all but called James Comey a liar in a statement whose clear purpose was to discredit the testimony altogether.
And perhaps most pathetically of all, House Speaker Paul Ryan tried to excuse Trump s inappropriate loyalty requests of Comey as sheer ignorance of how Washington works.
All in all, the GOP message is one of nothing to see here, folks.
Despite these bizarre public statements on the part of top Republicans, there is one prominent conservative who is willing to tell the truth about how the GOP is really feeling about the situation regarding Trump and the Russians.
In short, they are shitting their pants.
Conservative columnist and editor of the Weekly Standard Bill Kristol tweeted: I happen to have seen various GOP Senators this afternoon.
Trust me: Basically, they re not just concerned.
They re pretty terrified.
I happen to have seen various GOP Senators this afternoon.
Trust me: Basically, they're not just concerned.
They're pretty terrified.
https://t.co/WopZ2LiseR Bill Kristol (@BillKristol) June 8, 2017This tweet comes as a result of an article in Politico that referred to the Republican leadership s interest in what James Comey would be saying on Capitol Hill as a collective yawn.
Since this wouldn t be the first time the GOP has sold their souls and lied through their teeth to cover for Trump, I am more inclined to believe Bill Kristol.
Further, they know they cannot publicly criticize Trump or show any sort of wavering in their confidence in his innocence in this whole Russia mess without having Trump light them up on Twitter and having his fans come for them.So, in other words, this Russia stuff is getting so hot that even Republicans cannot privately deny it any longer.
But, they ll never say a word in public against Trump, because they care more about saving their proverbial political asses than they do about this country.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images