A Mike Pence rally in Nevada turned ugly when a military mom asked the vice presidential candidate about Donald Trump s recent statements regarding Khizr Khan and his wife Ghazala.
Rally goers viciously booed her and demanded to know why she was even there in the first place.The woman, who was later identified as identified as Catherine Byrne.
began by explaining that her son is serving in the Air Force.
Of course, the crowd cheered enthusiastically.
But when she continued, their mood quickly did an about face: Time and time again, [Donald] Trump has disrespected our nation s armed forces and veterans.
And his disrespect for Mr. Khan That was as far as she got before the crowd became vicious, booing her so fiercely that they drowned out her words.
Why are you here?
one woman screamed angrily.
But Byrne continued to speak You ve got a son in the military, how do you tolerate this disrespect?
Pence finally stepped in after about 10 seconds and began to hush the crowd.
That s OK, he said.
Pence then reiterated what he and said when he was confronted by protesters in Ohio last week: That s what freedom looks like, and that s what freedom sounds like.
Pence then praised Capt.
Humayun Khan and his family.
Khan was killed in Iraq while serving in the United States military.
His parents made headlines when they appeared at the Democratic National Convention and blasted Trump for his anti-Muslim rhetoric.
The Republican nominee responded to Khizr Khan s criticism of his bigoted policies by attack them.
Capt.
Khan is an American hero and we honor him and honor his family, he said.
The story of Capt.
Khan is an incredibly inspiring story.
But in the next breath, Pence defended Trump.
I have never been around someone more devoted to the armed forces of this country, Pence said of Trump.
There is no one more devoted to the veterans in this country.
One of the people booing Byrne was Denise Martinez.
She said that she admired how Pence had dealt with the tense situation.
I thought he handled it really, really well, she said.
Looking back, I think I would ve taken the high road.
He handled it the right way, the way I wish Trump would have, she added.Barbara Weisenthal was another woman who was booing.
In her opinion, Khizr Khan had no right to speak about Trump the way he did at the DNC and his entire speech was almost like slander.
Weisenthal added that the rally was probably not the best place for Byrne to ask her question.Jack Christenson, who is a veteran himself, argued that even though Byrne had the right to speak out thanks to the Constitution, she didn t have the right to violate everyone else s rights by asking a question of a person running to be vice president.Roen Horn said Byrne was claiming that Trump was somehow insulting the veterans, which he said was a bunch of crap.
She was politicizing the veterans, he said.
She had an agenda.
Featured image via Ralph Freso/Getty Images