What could Dick Cheney, engineer of the wars that will go down in history as criminal at best, possibly do that is worse than lying to the American people about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq in a fraudulent ploy to gain public support for a war we had no exit strategy for?
Cheney told CNN Friday that he would be backing Donald Trump just like he would back anyone else who was on the Republican ticket.That s a stark difference of opinion from Cheney s old Oval Office Puppet, George W. Bush or his brother and daddy, all of whom have vowed not to support Trump in the general election and to skip his nomination at the convention this summer in Cleveland.
Mittens Romney has also openly stated that he wouldn t support Donald Trump along with House Speaker Paul Ryan and a slew of other high-ranking establishment Republicans.So why is Cheney sticking around while the party goes about the business of trying to hand our nuclear codes to an idiot?
Because he s done it already.
In 2001, a complete moron walked into the White House, unqualified to order a sandwich, and somehow Dick Cheney gave him a legacy.
Sure it s a legacy of poverty and despair; war and death.
Financial collapse isn t such a bad way to end an administration, is it?Cheney knows full-well that Donald Trump, if elected, will be looking back at everyone who abandoned him and you can bet your bottom dollar that Dick Cheney will be listed as adviser in some capacity.
That s the kind of West Wing we ll be looking at.
Whoever will take the job will be the number one contender for almost every position of power.
If you re looking for a career in politics that will come to an abrupt end in four years or less, take a spot in the Trump Administration.
Not that it will really matter.
The cabinet will fill up with people we ve never heard of to whom Donald Trump owes a special favor.One thing is certain: Cheney has definitely hit the low spot in his life if he s reduced to supporting The Donald.Featured image by Bruce Bennett/Getty Images