This could easily be about Donald Trump should he get elected in November, except that the whole nation would be sorry instead of just a single state.Maine already has been dealing with their own version of the Republican nominee for years now and he somehow got elected and re-elected as the Governor and the results have been nothing short of embarrassing and disastrous.So the editorial board of the Portland Press Herald, Maine s largest newspaper, apologized to the entire country on Friday expressing regret that Paul Lepage was elevated to the office he currently occupies.
Dear America: Maine here.
Please forgive us we made a terrible mistake.
We managed to elect and re-elect a governor who is unfit for high office.
He has a gruff exterior and blunt way of talking that some of us find refreshing, but he has shown again and again that he governs by grudge, and uses his power to beat up on people who cannot fight back.
The people LePage beats up on the most are African-Americans and Hispanics, whom the Tea Party governor has repeatedly blamed for crimes and drugs in the state, even going so far as to accuse them of trying to take advantage of white women in the state after they are done delivering heroin.The hate and fear mongering has caused many people to think twice before relocating to the state, whose population is getting older.
This has hurt industries that are desperate for new blood to remain in operation.But LePage doesn t give a damn about that.
If he could hang a whites only sign on the Welcome To Maine billboard at the state line he would do it.
LePage knows that his words are widely understood to mean that he thinks that the color of their skin makes some people more likely to commit crimes, the Press Herald continues.
Rather than clarify or withdraw those statements, he repeats them.And that s exactly what Donald Trump does.
Just like LePage, Trump makes toxic remarks that have drawn white supremacists to his campaign while repulsing minority voters across the country.Only now is he pretending that he wants their votes after his poll numbers have imploded.Take out LePage s name and replace it with Donald Trump s throughout the editorial and it s a perfect match.Like LePage, Trump often blames the media for his own blunders and makes offensive remarks that make him look like a jackass who should never have been on the ballot in the first place.
LePage also doesn t apologize and has a thin skin.After Democratic state Rep. Drew Gattine commented about LePage s racism, the Republican governor lashed out by leaving a nasty and threatening message on his voicemail I would like to talk to you about your comments about my being a racist, you cocksucker, LePage said.
I want to talk to you.
I want you to prove that I m a racist.
I ve spent my life helping black people and you little son-of-a-bitch, socialist cocksucker.
You I need you to, just friggin I want you to record this and make it public because I am after you.
Thank you.
It would be nice to think that LePage would reflect on what he says and learn from these incidents, but he appears to be completely incapable of change, the Press Herald lamented about the incident.
He will probably blame the media again for any embarrassment he suffers, but everyone has heard the tape and knows what the governor said.
Unfortunately, LePage will be in office until 2019, which gives him plenty of time to do more damage and humiliate the state of Maine ever more.
Somehow, that s the only bright side the Press Herald can think of.On the bright side, America, LePage isn t going to be governor forever, and when his successor takes office in 2019, Mainers of all political parties will have to work together to fix the damage he has done to our reputation.
We hope that this person will be a leader who will welcome people of all races to live in Maine, and invest in our wonderful state.Until then, please accept our apology.
We ll try not to do it again.America needs to make sure that Donald Trump does not become president.
The last thing this country needs is a Paul LePage on the national level.
It would be embarrassing and we would have to apologize to the entire world for all of the destruction Trump causes over the next four years assuming that he doesn t somehow get re-elected like LePage did in Maine.So let s make sure we don t have to make such an apology by making sure Hillary Clinton wins in November.Featured Image: Flickr