Over the past few months, McDonalds has been a target for protests in favor of the fast food franchise raising its minimum hourly wage.
Now, the company has once again angered the public but for a much more noble cause.This time, McDonald s is taking hits from anti-gay religious groups that are absolutely fuming after McDonald s Taiwan posted an LGBT-friendly advertisement for McCafe onto its Facebook page.The ad, which features a young man coming out to his father, is 90 seconds of pure emotion, capturing a moment that is extremely scary and heart-wrenching for many LGBT youth and adults.
In the ad, the young man passes a coffee cup to his father that says, I like boys.
The father gets upset and jumps up from the table, leaving his son alone and fighting back tears.
A few seconds later the father returns, picks up the same cup of coffee and writes on it I accept that you like boys, as translated by the Shanghaiist.Watch the subtitled ad called Acceptance below:The ad touched the hearts of many and went viral, with over 3.6 million views, more than 92,000 likes and thousands of shares.
Unfortunately, not everyone enjoyed or appreciated the ad s accepting and equality-driven message.
Chang Shou-yi, the secretary general of the Alliance of Taiwan Religious Groups for the Protection of Family, is actually calling for a boycott on the restaurant after seeing the ad.
Shou-yi said: Because McDonald s is frequented by many children, it is especially important to oppose the promotion of same-sex behavior.
The secretary general added that the religious group rebukes and boycotts all enterprises that are polluting the next generation.
Now, even if you want to just take a leak at a McDonald s bathroom, you can t help but feel polluted.
But regardless of the backlash against the ad, the social media response has been extremely supportive:TwitterFacebookIf religious groups want to keep opposing businesses that support LGBT rights, they re going to have very limited places to do business with it s a list that keeps getting shorter as the world moves further away from bigotry and the hateful conservative rhetoric.
Even Chick-fil-A, a brand that infamously boasted its opposition to gay marriage, has a franchisee that donated food to a gay pride picnic last year.
The religious right is seriously running out of places where their bigotry is welcome.Featured image via video screen capture