Emails published by the New York Times Monday indicate that Hillary Clinton used more than one private email address during her time as secretary of state, contradicting previous claims from the Democratic presidential contender s office.Multiple emails show Clinton used account hrod17@clintonemail.com while serving in the Obama administration as secretary of state.Clinton s attorney, David Kendall, had previously told Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) that that particular address had not existed during Secretary Clinton s tenure as Secretary of State.
Another statement from Clinton s office said she only used one address during her time as secretary of state.
Secretary Clinton used one email account during her tenure at State (with the exception of her first weeks in office while transitioning from an email account she had previously used), it said.
In March 2013, Gawker published the email address she used while Secretary, and so she had to change the address on her account.
Clinton served as secretary of state from Jan. 2009 to Feb. 2013.
The emails she sent with the hrod17@clintonemail.com were sent in 2011 and 2012, according to the documents released by the Times:According To Emails Released By The New York Times, Hillary Clinton Used The Account hrod17@clintonemail.com While Secretary Of State.
( Selected Libya-Related Messages From Hillary Clinton s Personal Email Account, The New York Times , 5/18/15)NOTE: On April 8, 2011, Clinton Messaged Jake Sullivan Using The Account hrod17@clintonemail.com.
( Selected Libya-Related Messages From Hillary Clinton s Personal Email Account, The New York Times , 5/18/15) NOTE: On January 5, 2012, Clinton Messaged Jake Sullivan Using The Account hrod17@clintonemail.com.
( Selected Libya-Related Messages From Hillary Clinton s Personal Email Account, The New York Times , 5/18/15) NOTE: On August 28, 2012, Clinton Messaged Jake Sullivan Using The Account hrod17@clintonemail.com.
( Selected Libya-Related Messages From Hillary Clinton s Personal Email Account, The New York Times , 5/18/15) NOTE: Hillary Clinton Served As Secretary Of State From January 21, 2009 To February 1, 2013.
(U.S. Department Of State Website, Accessed 5/18/15)A representative for Clinton s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment from TheBlaze.Republican National Chairman Reince Priebus tweeted Monday evening that the news proved Clinton misled public about the use of only one secret email address.
Earlier this year, it was reported Clinton may have violated federal rules by exclusively using a personal email address to conduct all official government business while serving as secretary of state.