UPDATE: AND SO IT BEGINS A police officer holds back for fear of being seen as racist:A police officer in Birmingham, Ala., was beaten unconscious by a suspect during a traffic stop last week because the officer did not want to be pilloried in the media as a racist for using force against a black man.The detective, who is still in the hospital recovering from injuries to his head and neck, now reveals that he hesitated to use force against Cunningham because of the post-Ferguson war on cops.
A lot of officers are being too cautious because of what s going on in the media, the officer told CNN.
I hesitated because I didn t want to be in the media like I am right now.
Heath Boackle, a sergeant with the Birmingham Police Department, seconds this assessment.
Cops are walking on eggshells because of how they re scrutinized in the media, Boackle said last week.
Via: NR#CopsLivesMatter and someone better start holding these common thugs accountable before it gets really ugly.
These cops lives are not gimmicks to be used to promote Obama s race war.
These are human beings with families who put on that uniform every day, and in many cases are risking their lives to protect the very people who are killing or attacking them simply for being a white cop.
It s time for America to make some noise and start calling out our Community Organizer in Chief for what has to be the most destructive underground orchestration of hate and division by a President our nation has ever witnessed Alabama police are outraged after photos of a detective beaten bloody by a suspect who stole his gun during a traffic stop were shared by witnesses and praised on social media.The suspect, 34-year-old Janard Cunningham, is charged with attempted murder for allegedly assaulting the six-year veteran following a traffic stop at a shopping center in Roebuck around 11am Friday.The plainclothes detective, who has not been identified, was taken to the hospital for treatment after the assault but has since been released and is recovering at home.
Cunningham is said to have fled the scene after beating the officer until he didn t move anymore.
A second suspect was released without any chargesCunningham was taken into custody after the assault and is being held at Jefferson County Jail while police have released a second suspect who was apprehended without filing charges.During the traffic stop, the detective pulled over Cunningham s SUV and told him to stay in the car while he waited for backup to arrive.The suspect disobeyed that order, questioned why he had been stopped and then struck the officer in the head with his own weapon, AL.com reported.The beating reportedly continued until the officer was no longer moving, with Cunningham then fleeing the scene.While the detective was brought to the hospital, US Marshals and other officers tracked down the suspect and took him into custody.After the arrest, photos of the bloodied detective began popping up on social media, with some commenters applauding what happened.Other Alabama officers were angered by the outpouring of support for the suspect.Birmingham police Sgt Heath Boackle, president of the Fraternal Order of Police, said: He was laying there lifeless and people were standing around taking pictures.
If the tables were turned, and that was a suspect lying there, they would be rioting.
Via: Daily Mail