This story is absolutely horrific, but not surprising.
Bleeding heart liberals aren t doing illegal aliens any favors by fighting for them to come here, only to be abused by their employers, who hire them, and then hold their illegal immigration status over their heads when they demand safer working conditions.
(See video below)A worker caught in a machine at a meat processing plant has died in Ohio, according to local authorities.Samuel Martinez, 62, was killed by the machine on Saturday afternoon at the Fresh Mark plant in Canton, Ohio.The Guatemalan national died at the scene.According to the Stark County Coroner s Office, the man stepped into a chute and was stuck in the waste grinder.In a statement released on Saturday, Fresh Mark said that they would work with local law enforcement to figure out what caused the accident.This afternoon just before 5 pm, we experienced a work-related fatality at our Canton facility, they said.
Our primary concern rests with the wellbeing of this employee s family, as well as with the safety and well-being of all our employees in the Canton and other Fresh Mark facilities.
We are working with authorities to determine the facts regarding this incident.
The incident marks the second of such to happen at the company.In 2011, an employee was electrocuted while trying to plug in a fan as he was standing in water.The company sells pork related meat under the Superior and Sugardale brands.
Daily Mail In 2011, Steve Salvi, the founder of Ohio Jobs & Justice PAC interviewed an Ohio worker that made some startling allegations regarding the alleged hiring of underaged illegal aliens at one of Fresh Mark s Sugardale meatpacking plants in Canton, Ohio.
In addition to outing the company for hiring underage illegal alien workers, the former Fresh Mark employee claims a veteran returned from Iraq and applied for a job at the meat processing company.
The veteran was allegedly turned down until he could prove that he spoke the Spanish language.In May 2017, the very liberal New Yorker published a story about a 17-year old Guatemalan boy who was too young to work in a factory, and lost his leg due to the unsafe working conditions at neighboring Case Farms in Ohio.
The New Yorker says the Case Farms plants are among the most dangerous workplaces in America.Osiel sanitized the liver-giblet chiller, a tublike contraption that cools chicken innards by cycling them through a near-freezing bath, then looked for a ladder, so that he could turn off the water valve above the machine.
As usual, he said, there weren t enough ladders to go around, so he did as a supervisor had shown him: he climbed up the machine, onto the edge of the tank, and reached for the valve.
His foot slipped; the machine automatically kicked on.
Its paddles grabbed his left leg, pulling and twisting until it snapped at the knee and rotating it a hundred and eighty degrees, so that his toes rested on his pelvis.
The machine literally ripped off his left leg, medical reports said, leaving it hanging by a frayed ligament and a five-inch flap of skin.
Osiel was rushed to Mercy Medical Center, where surgeons amputated his lower leg.Case Farms plants are among the most dangerous workplaces in America.
In 2015 alone, federal workplace-safety inspectors fined the company nearly two million dollars, and in the past seven years, it has been cited for two hundred and forty violations.
That s more than any other company in the poultry industry except Tyson Foods, which has more than thirty times as many employees.
David Michaels, the former head of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), called Case Farms an outrageously dangerous place to work.
Four years before 17 year old Guatemalan worker, Osiel L pez P rez lost his leg, Michaels s inspectors had seen Case Farms employees standing on top of machines to sanitize them and warned the company that someone would get hurt.
Just a week before Osiel s accident, an inspector noted in a report that Case Farms had repeatedly taken advantage of loopholes in the law and given the agency false information.
The company has a twenty-five-year track record of failing to comply with federal workplace-safety standards, Michaels said.Case Farms has built its business by recruiting some of the world s most vulnerable immigrants, who endure harsh and at times illegal conditions that few Americans would put up with.
When these workers have fought for higher pay and better conditions, the company has used their immigration status to get rid of vocal workers, avoid paying for injuries, and quash dissent.
Thirty years ago, Congress passed an immigration law mandating fines and even jail time for employers who hire unauthorized workers, but trivial penalties and weak enforcement have allowed employers to evade responsibility.
Under President Obama, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agreed not to investigate workers during labor disputes.
Advocates worry that President Trump, whose Administration has targeted unauthorized immigrants, will scrap those agreements, emboldening employers to simply call ice anytime workers complain.