Pastor Stephen L. Anderson of Faithful Word Baptist Church in Tempe, Arizona, is a terrible human being.
In 2014, he made the case that AIDS can be eliminated if we just wiped all the f*ggots off the face of the planet.
Naturally, given his many unhinged ravings about the LGBT community, a group he calls (without cause) pedophiles, and a wide array of other offensive language, Anderson was quite pleased after learning that 50 sodomites died, and another 50 were injured, in a targeted terrorist attack against the gay community in Orlando.Anderson says that this is good news because there s 50 less pedophiles in the world.
The Christian pastor praised the shooter for eliminating his victims because they we just disgusting homosexuals at a gay bar.
While he says he would never advocate violence (except for the time he prayed that President Obama would die and go to hell and his statement that all gay people should be murdered, of course), Anderson is clear that the Muslim man who killed all those people was simply following the Bible (what?
):Now let me just be real clear: I ve never advocated for violence.
I don t believe in, you know, taking the law into our own hands.
I would never go in and shoot up a gay bar so-called.
I don t believe it s right for us to just be a vigilante But I will say this: The Bible says that homosexuals should be put to death, in Leviticus 20:13.
Obviously, it s not right for somebody to just, you know, shoot up the place, because that s not going through the proper channels.
But these people all should have been killed, anyway, but they should have been killed through the proper channels, as in they should have been executed by a righteous government that would have tried them, convicted them, and saw them executed.
Because, in Leviticus 20:13, God s perfect law, he put the death penalty on murder, and he also put the death penalty on homosexuality.
That s what the Bible says, plain and simple.While he is happy that fifty people were murdered in the name of his god (though many Christians would dispute that they share a god with Muslims) after an extremist saw two men kissing and flew off the rails, Anderson says that there are some drawbacks like those awful liberals who think that this attack is one of the many examples that we need reasonable firearm regulations, and those who will denounce hate speech:But the bad news is that this is now gonna be used, I m sure, to push for gun control, where, you know, law-abiding normal Americans are not gonna be allowed to have guns for self-defense.
And then I m sure it s also gonna be used to push an agenda against so-called hate speech.
So Bible-believing Christian preachers who preach what the Bible actually says about homosexuality that it s vile, that it s disgusting, that they re reprobates you know, we re gonna be blamed.Like, It s all extremism!
It s not just the Muslims, it s the Christians!
I m sure that that s coming.
I m sure that people are gonna start attacking, you know, Bible-believing Christians now, because of what this guy did.
I m not sad about it, I m not gonna cry about it.
Because these 50 people in a gay bar that got shot up, they were gonna die of AIDS, and syphilis, and whatever else.
They were all gonna die early, anyway, because homosexuals have a 20-year shorter life-span than normal people, anyway, Anderson says.
At least these dangerous predators, these dangerous filthy pedophiles at this gay bar, at least they re off the streets.
I m just trying to look at the bright side, he concluded before wishing God s blessings on viewers.If there was any justice in this world, God would have spared the victims and taken Anderson instead.
F*ck him.
[Update: Anderson s video has been removed from YouTube for violating the platform s hate speech policy.
A copy is below]Watch Anderson s disgusting rant below:Featured image via screengrab