Trump supporter Scottie Nell Hughes has made some moronic comments in the past, and it s epic every time she gets called out on it.
Just days after she got slammed for her comments on gun violence, Hughes got fact-checked AGAIN on CNN by news anchor Poppy Harlow and activist Bakari Sellers.Commenting on Trump s horrendous standing amongst minorities, Harlow noted that Trump is doing worse in this area than even third party candidates.
Hughes tried to defend the Republican nominee, stating that Trump holds rallies all over the country and that the doors are open to everyone.
In actuality, Trump usually holds his rallies in mostly-white areas, and has kicked out his own supporters for having dark skin in the past.Making a reference to Trump s recent pathetic attempt to appeal to the African American community, Sellers told Hughes that Trump wouldn t be getting a participation trophy just because he happened to visit one black neighborhood during his whole campaign.
Sellers said: I know that many surrogates and many supporters of Donald Trump like to take the man away from his baggage, but you cannot sit here and not remember that Donald Trump is the one who supported the Birther movement and just yesterday in Philadelphia he refused to even apologize for it.
To drive his point home, Sellers brought up the fact that Trump hadn t wanted to have black tenants in New York City, along with Trump s infamous full-page ad that called for the death penalty for the Central Park Five decades ago.
Hughes countered this by saying that Trump s racist housing woes were probably 30, 35 years ago and obviously Mr. Trump addressed it.
Then, she accused the press of trying to trap him in different aspects.
Hughes continued on to say that even though former KKK leader David Duke had endorsed Trump, Clinton s endorsement by California grand dragon KKK leader today was worse.
She said: Hillary Clinton has yet to disavow him, so there s ties on both sides.
Harlow tried to grasp just what Hughes was trying to say, and she asked her to clarify.
Hughes responded, I m saying that Hillary Clinton has actually stronger ties, that has not disavowed a KKK endorsement.
Sellers jumped in and defended the former Secretary of State: Scottie and any other surrogate and Donald Trump himself are going to have an extremely hard time with this argument.
I think they re actually going down the wrong path that somehow Hillary Clinton is the bigot in this situation, or has some racist past or racist history, because that s simply not the case.
Then, Hughes made the mistake of trying to accuse Clinton of being involved in the Birther movement during the 2008 campaign.
Unable to stand this insanity any longer, Harlow jumped in and shut the whole thing down.
She said: Scottie, that is not factual.
That is not factually correct.
Hillary Clinton never questioned the birthplace of Barack Obama when she was running against him.
Trump, on the other hand, has several times and continues to do so today.
You can watch this brilliant moment below:Featured image via screen capture