Newsflash for Mattel, and any other company who is pandering to the Left this Christmas season: God did not create Gender-Neutral beings God made man and woman to be different for a reason Don t mess with God A boy is featured in the latest Barbie commercial for the first time ever.
The commercial is receiving widespread praise for upending gender barriers.
The ad displays Mattel s new line of Barbie dolls created as part of a partnership with the Italian fashion house Moschino.
The dolls sport outfits of black mesh and leather, with edgy golden accessories to match.However, it is not the dolls racy clothing that steals the show, but rather, the mohawked boy playing with the dolls.
Moschino Barbie is so fierce, he exclaims to the camera with an exaggerated head roll.
This single line is garnering the Barbie boy a huge fan base worldwide.The public now accepts homosexuality and same-sex marriage.
But the fight is not over.
The offensive to reshape society in even more radical ways pushes forward.An effort is gaining ground to create a world where not just sexual orientation, but sex itself, is a choice.
Where boys can be girls and girls can be boys, or something in between.
Where people are expected to ignore the biological reality of sex so that all people coexist androgynously, or according to whatever gender suits them at the moment.
Where everyone pretends that gender confusion is normal, if not desirable, and anyone who doesn t play along can be punished and silenced.This demonstrates unprecedented contempt for reality and common sense, let alone morality.Think of the implications with respect to public bathrooms, sex-segregated activities, locker rooms, college student housing and countless other areas of human interaction.Does the idea of a boy who thinks he s a girl showering next to your daughter in P.E.
class make you uncomfortable?
Then you d better brace yourself.
This cause is winning critical legal battles and it is starting with our youth.Earlier this month, the California Senate passed a bill saying that throughout K-12 education, a student is permitted to participate in sex-segregated school programs and activities, including athletic teams and competitions, and use facilities [e.g.
bathrooms, locker rooms] consistent with his or her gender identity, irrespective of the gender listed on the pupil s records.
Gender identity is the terminology these ultrasensitive, morally sophisticated lawmakers use to refer to the sex a person happens to identify with.Last month, a governing body in Colorado ruled that a 6-year-old boy who thinks he s a girl has the right to use the girl s bathroom at his elementary school.
The Colorado Division of Civil Rights said that denying him that right creates an environment rife with harassment and is akin to racial segregation.See where this is going?
The public majority already agrees that denying same-sex couples the right to marry is exactly like prohibiting interracial marriage.
Now, denying someone access to a public bathroom on the basis of biology is just like excluding blacks from white-only facilities.These lawmakers and officials are determined to ensure that these children grow up in a world where sex confusion is welcomed, even encouraged.What about the girl who feels awkward about having a boy walk in while she s using the bathroom?
Sorry.
She is the one who needs to adjust her thinking not the boy.But there is something far more sinister going on here.
Mattel is not just using the ad to connect with little boys who play with Barbie dolls; it is using the ad to smash gender roles.It s no secret that society is moving away from gender-based toys for children.
Target is in the process of removing gender-based signs from their toy section, and Hasbro switched to a gender-neutral Easy-Bake Oven a few years ago.The Moschino Barbie commercial is just another step in society s pursuit to radically change social expectations.
But is including a boy in a Barbie ad really progress and common sense, as one news source put it?
Via: The Trumpet