A Minnesota Republican is desperately trying to convince voters that his years worth of racist, sexist, and anti-gay Facebook posts no longer reflect who he is.Nolan West is a former GOP aide who is now running for a seat in the Minnesota statehouse.But he apparently didn t think that his social media posts were fair game, so when the Minneapolis Star Tribune started writing a story about all of his offensive and hateful statements he rushed to scrub his account of everything going all the way back to 2008 when he called for lynching President Obama soon after he was first elected in 2008.
IT S LYNCHING TIME, West wrote.And it s not hard to see where West gets his hatred of the first African-American president from.
West also posted praise of the Confederacy and expressed his utter disdain for Abraham Lincoln.
As we all know, the Confederacy started a Civil War to keep slavery legal while Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves and kept the Union together.According to the Star Tribune:On the day South Carolina removed the Confederate battle flag from its statehouse grounds in 2015, West reposted an advertisement for the flags on his Facebook page, continuing his history of publicly expressing admiration for the Confederacy and disdain for Lincoln.West is currently on House GOP staff while running for the north Metro suburban seat vacated by retiring Rep. Tim Sanders, R-Blaine.In 2011 West marked the day Confederate President Jefferson Davis resigned from the U.S. Senate, 150 years earlier.
West also called Lincoln, a fellow Republican, the single worst president this country has ever seen.
In addition, the Star Tribune reports that West also posted offensive remarks about women and gay people.West, of course, offered what should be considered a fake apology and claimed he is not the same person that he has been for the last 8 years.
I apologize for posting insensitive material, West wrote in an email.
I ve taken those posts down because they do not reflect who I am or what I believe.
And rather than drop out of the race in disgrace like he should, West is staying in the race, which, if Minnesota voters would like to know, is against his DFL opponent Susan Witt, who by all rights should win in a landslide so that District 37B is not represented by a racist Confederate sympathizer who clearly believes black people should still be enslaved and hanged at the end of a rope.Featured image via Twitter