Michelle Obama received $70 million dollars from the feds for her pet project to promote eduction for girls.
It s really a front and slush fund for her escapades to Europe, Asia and now the wealthy Middle East Traveling the world on taxpayer dollars is what Mooch does best.
This time she s outdone herself with the idiocy of speaking to a radical Muslim group about how bad she had it as a kid in America when these radical Muslims don t think twice about Sharia law and the horror that brings for little girls.
What a fool!The First Lady is supposed to be a representative of America and shine a light on the good work we re doing around the world.
Michelle Obama can t help but repeatedly bash America and especially slam the status quo in American culture.
After all, she did say we need to change our traditions.So here s the latest on her America bashing in the Middle East while on the taxpayer s dime:First Lady Michelle Obama is in Qatar this week for a summit sponsored by a state-controlled foundation that is known for operating mosques that have welcomed extremist clerics, according to a range of sources.Obama is in Qatar a country under congressional scrutiny for its financing of terrorists through the end of the week to attend the country s World Innovation Summit for Education, an annual educational conference sponsored by the Qatar Foundation, which has been marred in controversy due to its ongoing hosting of radical clerics.Founded and run by the former Qatari emir s wife, Sheikha Mozah, the Qatar Foundation houses six satellite campuses owned by American universities and other Western schools at a site outside Doha known as Education City.At its mosque there, the Foundation has welcomed multiple radical clerics in the past several months, prompting criticism from some who accuse the charity of quietly promoting terrorism.One cleric who recently spoke at the mosque, Omar Abdelkafi, has mocked the killings of French satirical writers at Charlie Hebdo, calling the terrorist act the sequel to the comedy film of 9/11.
Another maintained that Jews and their helpers must be destroyed.
The ongoing appearance of these clerics at the foundation s mosque has raised questions about the Obama administration s endorsement of the charity, which has strived to maintain international legitimacy.Read more: WFBObama addressed the foundation on Wednesday:Michelle Obama went to Qatar to give a speech on girls education.
There, the first lady of the United States complained about growing up as a girl in America.
Back when I was a girl, even though I was bright and curious and I had plenty of opinions of my own, people were often more interested in hearing what my brother had to say.
And my parents didn t have much money; neither of them had a university degree.
So when I got to school, I sometimes encountered teachers who assumed that a girl like me wouldn t be a good student.
I was even told that I would never be admitted to a prestigious university, so I shouldn t even bother to apply, Obama said at the Qatar National Convention Center in Doha.
Like so many girls across the globe, I got the message that I shouldn t take up too much space in this world.
That I should speak softly and rarely.
That I should have modest ambitions for my future.
That I should do what I was told and not ask too many questions.
But I was lucky, because I had parents who believed in me, who had big dreams for me.
They told me, don t ever listen to those who doubt you.
They said, just work harder to prove them wrong.
And that s what I did.
I went to school.
I worked hard.
I got good grades.
I got accepted to top universities.
I went on to become a lawyer, a city government employee, a hospital executive, and - the most important job I ve ever had - a mother to two beautiful girls.
Obama did say that the U.S. has made progress.
And as I moved forward, so did my country.
In each generation, brave women and men fought to end gender discrimination in the workplace, to pass tougher laws against rape and domestic abuse, to ensure equal access to education for women.
And while we still have work to do to achieve full economic, political equality for women in the U.S., today, nearly 60 percent of American university students are women.
And as for the law school at Harvard University - which I actually got my law degree the Dean of the school is now a woman, as are half the students.
Here s a bit from Michelle Obama s speech: