How very progressive Not since the Civil Rights movement of the 60 s has America seen such a racial divide.
Of course, we all know who s behind the manufactured race war in America.
Barack Obama is working in unison with race agitators and Hollywood idiots like Harvey Weinstein who are willing to suffer the consequences of being humiliated by a racist comedian in front of millions, if it means they are absolved of the sins of not hiring enough black people.The co-chief of The Weinstein Co. acknowledges that the Academy has a poor track record when it comes to films about people of color including his own but he feels the blame belongs on studios and distributors, not on people who ve worked so hard all their lives and prize that Academy card and have reached that zenith and then go on to retirement.
I just can imagine Chris Rock s opening remarks, Harvey Weinstein, the co-chief of The Weinstein Co., says as we sit down to record an episode of the Awards Chatter podcast days ahead of Sunday s Rock-hosted 88th Academy Awards.
If anybody s [planning on] boycotting the Oscars, don t, because Chris Rock is gonna annihilate every one of us [leaders of Hollywood studios/distribution companies] in the first 20 minutes of the show, and it will be well worth watching.
It will be an Oscars to remember.
This year, for the first time since 2008 and one of the few times in the last 25 years, none of Weinstein s films are nominated for best picture Carol and The Hateful Eight came up short but he s still going to the show, hoping for a best original score win for Hateful composer Ennio Morricone, among others associated with Weinstein Co. films, as well as a best actor win for my buddy Leo [DiCaprio] for The Revenant.
That film, like the last two best picture Oscar winners 12 Years a Slave and Birdman, was guided to fruition by New Regency president/CEO Brad Weston, who used to be co-president of The Weinstein Co. s Dimension Films division.Here s an example of Chris Rock on one of his racist rants:Weinstein says he understands, from experience, the frustrations of the people calling for a boycott of the Oscars over the #OscarsSoWhite controversy, and feels they have made a difference but he does not support their ultimate objective.
It s that voice, actually, that gets people motivated, he says, because you don t want the boycott.
That s how people use their personal power to force change.
So I look at that and go, Great, because everybody s thinking about that now.
I thought about it a couple of years ago because it had bugged me over the years that the films that I did about ethnic diversity never got anything.
So I said, I m gonna stack the deck for myself: I m gonna put out The Butler, Mandela and Fruitvale Station in the same year, okay?
We got one nomination for U2 out of three movies.
Was race the driving consideration?
I have no idea, he says, but it has to make you think.
He continues, And then, that year, there was 12 Years a Slave, and I said, What is it, only one?'
Via: Hollywood Reporter