Montel Williams is an outspoken opponent of Donald Trump s campaign and has been hitting the Republican nominee particularly hard as of late over his predatory sexual behavior.Here goes accused predator @realDonaldTrump lying about the black community again Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 13, 2016 Boys will be boys, but boys will not be President Ronald Reagan.Donald Trump will NEVER be President.
Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 13, 2016DONALD TRUMP IS A DAMN PEDOPHILE.
PERIOD FULL STOP.
pic.twitter.com/UK6AF3GjjI Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 13, 2016So Trump defender Scottie Nell Hughes responded by privately threatening to bring up sexual misconduct accusations against Williams.
Bc I appreciate you and don t want to publicly bring up a bad moment in your life but please be careful publicly going against me Bc others might not have a loyalty to you, she wrote.Rather than bow down to such threat, Williams called Hughes out publicly on Twitter and posted her message for all to see.
Trumpers in general: careful threatening me when you don t know what I know and can tell reporters, Williams fired back.
@scottienhughes /Trumpers in general: careful threatening me when you don t know what I know and can tell reporters pic.twitter.com/D1kz95gpSE Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 14, 2016It turns out Hughes was referencing sexual assault allegations which Williams was exonerated for in a court of law.Seeing her error, Hughes claimed she wasn t threatening Williams and claimed she was just being a friend.
But Williams was having none of it.Yes you were and it s a damn stupid one at that given the case was tossed and the lawyer who filed it sanctioned ;) https://t.co/LH7cijIUKs Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 14, 2016An embarrassed Hughes then offered a pathetic apology to stop the bleeding.
@Montel_Williams well I apologize you took it that way Bc unfortunately the part about the lawyer is not highly reported as much.
I am sorry Scottie Nell Hughes (@scottienhughes) October 14, 2016But Williams didn t accept.Scottie was referencing series of frivolous sexual harassment lawsuits filed against me.
I won EACH AND EVERY ONE https://t.co/Wph3higga0 pic.twitter.com/MjfgBzQ3IV Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 14, 2016I didn t settle a one of those cases because I was innocent, so much so the Judge fined the lawyer who filed them 15k https://t.co/4AZbliptFr Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) October 14, 2016In a statement provided to Raw Story, Williams explained that while Hughes has only known Trump for a few months, she clearly doesn t know him like he does.
Scottie has known Donald a few months, I ve known him more than 20 years.
It would be unwise for her or any of these folks from central casting posing as surrogates to threaten me.
They have no idea the damage me deciding to talk to a reporter about what I know would cause.
Hughes responded on Twitter by playing the victim as if she did nothing wrong by casually making threats to someone she considers a friend.
No messages from you sorry or I would have responded that MW and I have had friendly convos since 14.
Sorry.
I guess I misunderstood how polite our friendship was and very disappointed he has that low of respect for me.
Threatening to smear a person s reputation is not what any good friend does.
But that s what Hughes did even though Williams was found totally innocent of the allegations against him.
Hughes deserved to be humiliated in public, and by sharing the threat publicly, Williams showed the world just how low Trump s minions are willing to sink.Featured image via Facebook