The U.S. bombardment of a Syrian airbase just outside of Homs Friday was likely seen by North Korea as a clear warning that President Trump will use his military if United States interests are at risk.The immediate focus after the strikes was on Russia s Vladimir Putin s reaction.
Russia was not happy with the U.S., it spoke in defense of Syria and moved warships.
But now the attention is on the next move by another world leader: Kim Jong-Un.Gordon Chang, a Daily Beast columnist and author of Nuclear Showdown: North Korea Takes On The World, said in an emailed statement to Fox News Friday that the U.S. strike on the Syrian airfield tells North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un that he must now heed American military power, something that he probably dismissed before.
Kim s father, Kim Jong Il, disappeared from public view for about six weeks in 2003 at the time of the Iraq war.
Kim Jong-Un loves the public spotlight, and it will be telling if he similarly goes into hiding, the author said.
FOX NewsBREAKING: A U.S. Navy strike group will be moving toward the western Pacific Ocean near the Korean peninsula as a show of force, a U.S. official told Reuters on Saturday, as concerns grow about North Korea s advancing weapons program.Earlier this month North Korea tested a liquid-fueled Scud missile which only traveled a fraction of its range.The strike group, called Carl Vinson, includes an aircraft carrier and will make its way from Singapore toward the Korean peninsula, according to the official, who was not authorized to speak to the media and requested anonymity.
We feel the increased presence is necessary, the official said, citing North Korea s worrisome behavior.The news was first reported by Reuters.In a statement late Saturday, the U.S. Navy s Third Fleet said the strike group had been directed to sail north, but it did not specify the destination.
The military vessels will operate in the Western Pacific rather than making previously planned port visits to Australia, it added.This year North Korean officials, including leader Kim Jong Un, have repeatedly indicated an intercontinental ballistic missile test or something similar could be coming, possibly as soon as April 15, the 105th birthday of North Korea s founding president and celebrated annually as the Day of the Sun.
Read more: Reuters