In the second time in less than two months, Trump s attempt to ban Muslims from entering the United States has been slapped down by a federal judge.The state of Hawaii officially blocked Trump s refashioned executive order that he had hoped would allow him to ban Muslims from certain Middle Eastern countries.
The court case was closed just six hours before the ban was scheduled to begin.The temporary restraining order, which applies nationwide, blocks the Trump administration from enforcing sections 2 and 6 of the new executive order the travel and refugee portions of the order.It will now be up to Trump to decide whether he wants to appeal or give up.
The last time he was faced with this reality check, Trump promptly freaked out, promising to SEE YOU IN COURT only to later drop plans to appeal.
Instead, he had gambled everything on this rewrite.
And he just lost again.SEE YOU IN COURT, THE SECURITY OF OUR NATION IS AT STAKE!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 9, 2017In an incredible twist, US District Judge Derrick Watson used Trump s very own words as part of his reasoning for slapping down the executive order.Judge then QUOTES TRUMP regarding the "religious animus driving the promulgation of the Executive Order."
pic.twitter.com/T0KCc06RMY Jessica Huseman (@JessicaHuseman) March 15, 2017It s fitting that Trump s big mouth was his undoing.
For years now he has publicly held the position that if elected he would ban Muslims from coming to the United States.
Now that he is actually in office, his argument was that his executive order had nothing to do with religion.
The countries he picked just happened to be Muslim-majority.
The people he detained in airports just happened to be Muslims.
The exemptions he said would be allowed just happened to be non-Muslims.
Judge Watson wasn t buying any of it.Calling Trump s comments significant and unrebutted evidence of religious animus driving the promulgation of the Executive Order.
Put another way: This order is bigoted to its core as was the previous one.Watson concluded: Any reasonable, objective observer would conclude, as does the Court for purposes of the instant Motion for TRO, that the stated secular purpose of the Executive Order is, at the very least, secondary to a religious objective of temporarily suspending the entry of Muslims.
This judge has Trump pegged.Featured image via Michael Reynolds-Pool/Getty Images