We ve all heard it from our conservative friends (and enemies): race relations are worse under President Obama.
President Obama is dividing this nation using race and religion as a factor.
The Democrats (and, again, President Obama), are pitting Americans against Americans.We ve heard it time and time again.
Everything is President Obama s fault, not his vile, racist, xenophobic haters.But before anyone with half a brain entertains that idea any further, look at the first night of the RNC.
It was a disaster, we all know.
Chaos broke out, Republicans stormed out and threw their credentials, Never Trump delegates staged protests and challenged the rules.But what was even more telling was the vile, racist (blatant and latent) and divisive comments that came from a slew of speakers and representatives:The next time a republican wants to accuse President Obama and the democrats of stoking racial, divisive sentiments, just show them reruns of the first day of the RNC.In only seven hours, the Republicans successfully demonized (multiple times) anyone who wasn t a white, male, Christian conservative.
It must be a new record.For too long Democrats and peaceful progressives have been demonized anyone who dares to call out their hateful, radicalizing rhetoric.
They have blamed Black Lives Matter for dead police, but don t blame their anti-Muslim rhetoric for radicalization in the Middle East (which has trickled into the United States).
They blame liberals for the United States weakened image across the world, but they somehow managed to give us someone dumber than George W. Bush.Republicans say Democrats hyper focus on race, yet they put their token black conservative on stage to celebrate the killing of unarmed black men and women.Republicans say the people don t have faith in American politics or their elected officials anymore, and then they put a general on stage to chant lock her up, making a spectacle never seen before in American politics.Politics has become a victim peddling sideshow to the Republican Party.
Their resurgence of Nixon s Southern Strategy, coupled with a divide-and-conquer mentality, was put on full display as one after another, speakers and personalities alike made it their mission to appeal to the lowest common denominator: hate.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images