The Senate is already rolling back President Barack Obama s legacy.Here is Trump only days before the election promising the Republicans will repeal and replace Obamacare:It passed the continuing resolution, S. Con.Res.
3, that tears away the fees, taxes and subsidies from the 201o Patient Protection and Affordable Cart Act, Obamacare, shortly after 1:25 Thursday morning, 51-to-48.All Republicans, except for Sen. Rand Paul (R.-KY), voted for the resolution.
Paul criticized the budget resolution for not addressing the federal debt and for not having a companion replacement bill.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D.-CA), who is recovering from a scheduled medical procedure was absent from the chamber.As senators waited for their names to be called by the clerk, Paul approached the clerk s desk from side and whispered: No.
All Democrats and the two Independents who caucus with Democrats voted against the resolution.Soon after they voted, virtually all Republicans left the floor.
Among the handful staying behind were Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R.-KY) and Majority Whip John Cornyn (R.-Texas), along with Sen. John R. Thune (R.-S.D.
), Sen. Roy Blunt (R.-MO) in the front.
McConnell sat quietly at his desk, but Cornyn stood tall in the well watching the votes come in.All of the Democrats did not respond with their names were called off and they sat glumly with their armed crossed or their chins resting on their hand.
When the Republicans were done, led by Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D.-N.Y.), each Democrat attempted to make remarks with their vote.Even though Obamacare has become wildly unpopular with pretty much everyone in America, Senator Schumer joined other Democrats like Socialist Bernie Sanders to voice their objections to repealing the government mandated insurance program:For the tens of millions of Americans who will lose their healthcare if the ACA is repealed, I vote no.
#MakeAmericaSickAgain Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) January 12, 2017The presiding officer, Sen. Cory Gardner (R.-CO) repeatedly ruled the Democrats out of order: Debate is not in order during a vote.
If Gardner was slow to start rapping the palm-held ivory gavel, Cornyn would say in a stern voice: Point of order.
Breitbart