The cash flows through the State Department and the famously corrupt U.S. Agency of International Development (USAID), which is charged with providing global economic, development and humanitarian assistance.
USAID has allocated about $5 million to leftwing Soros groups in Macedonia since 2012, documents show, and at least $9.5 million has been earmarked by the agency to intervene in the Balkan nation s governmental affairs for 2016-2011.Here s how the clandestine operation functions, according to high-level sources in Macedonia and the U.S. that have provided Judicial Watch with records as part of an ongoing investigation.
The Open Society Foundation has established and funded dozens of leftwing, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in Macedonia to overthrow the conservative government.
One Macedonian government official interviewed by Judicial Watch in Washington D.C. recently, calls it the Soros infantry.
The groups organize youth movements, create influential media outlets and organize violent protests to undermine the institutions and policies implemented by the government.
One of the Soros groups funded the translation and publication of Saul Alinsky s Rules for Radicals into Macedonian.
The book is a tactical manual of subversion, provides direct advice for radical street protests and proclaims Lucifer to be the first radical.Thanks to Obama s ambassador, who has not been replaced by President Trump, Uncle Sam keeps the money flowing so the groups can continue operating and recruiting, sources in Macedonia and the U.S. confirm.With a population of about 2 million, Macedonia has one of the more conservative governments in Europe.
This includes the lowest flat tax in Europe, close ties with Israel and pro-life policies.
The country recently built a border fence to crackdown on an illegal immigration crisis that overwhelmed law enforcement agencies.
Between 10,000 and 12,000 illegal aliens were crossing the Greek-Macedonian border daily at the peak of the European migration crisis, a Macedonian official told Judicial Watch, and the impact was devastating.
This is likely of big interest to Soros, a renowned open borders advocate who pushes international governance, diminished U.S. global power and an increase in Muslim immigration.This appears to be the case in Macedonia with the help of American financing.There have been a number of violent protests in recent months that have been coordinated by Soros Open Society Foundation through its U.S.-funded NGOs, sources tell Judicial Watch.Some U.S. members of Congress have expressed interest in the issue and have demanded answers from Ambassador Baily, USAID and the State Department.
In typical fashion, the State Department has stonewalled the inquiries and USAID hasn t been much more forthcoming.
Judicial Watch