On Face The Nation, Mike Pence showed exactly how low the Trump administration is when he refused (again) to commit to the most basic part of human decency: Not, you know, torturing people.
When asked unequivocally if Trump will torture people, he said We re going to have a president again who will never say what he s never going to do.
That s right.
He won t say no to internment camps.
He won t say no to a nuclear first strike.
And he won t say no to torture.Ask yourself: Is this the country we want to be right now?Here s the clip: Will Trump allow waterboarding?
We re going to have a president who will never say what we ll never do, says Gov.
Mike Pence.
pic.twitter.com/GuFaQPXM8q Face The Nation (@FaceTheNation) November 20, 2016A return to Bush-era strategies will see a return to Bush-era results.
Instead of drones, there will be invasions.
You think Benghazi was bad?
Try over a dozen embassy attacks and dozens killed, not to mention 9/11.
Trump wants to stop radical Islamic terrorists?
Well, guess what, smart guy?
Torture CREATES radical Islamic terrorists.
When President Obama first took office in 2008, one of the first steps he took was to inform the American public about the Republican torture program which had occurred under George Bush, and to put a stop to it:In one of his first acts as president, Obama signed an executive order that banned the use of torture by the CIA And three months later, his administration released Justice Department memos that revealed some of the arguments that Bush administration lawyers used to approve them.
(MSNBC)And even he was less than perfect on that count.
Generally, this subject is something everyone can agree on: Torture is bad.
Torture is inhuman.
Torture removes any possibility of moral superiority in conflict.
Inflicting torture upon someone under your power and control makes you no better than the enemy.
And, furthermore, it doesn t work unless you re looking for confirmation bias, or looking to feed the xenophobic rage of sadistic bigots here at home.Trump s administration is going to drag us back as a country on every single issue.
There has never been a moment, during any of our lifetimes, as important as this one to remember one simple thing: Democracy does not stop at the ballot box.
1.5 million more (and counting) voted for Hillary Clinton.
It is a mistake in the system and the result of Republican rigging after the last census that even gave this demagogue public office.
And it is our responsibility, for the future of our country, our children, and the world, to stop as much of what he tries to accomplish as is possible.Featured image via video screencapture