The Republican Election Commissioner of Jefferson County Arkansas showed how easy it is for a white man in a red state to pull a gun on an unarmed black man, say he felt threatened and walk away scot-free.
Stu Soffer, the white man in question, decided to insert himself into an argument when he was told in no uncertain terms by former Democratic Election Commissioner Ted Davis that nobody was talking to him.
Davis, who never makes any threatening gestures towards Soffer, was then told to step back by another white guy intervening on first white guy s behalf.Sorry for the lack of names, but by this point all these white guys shouting allegations and preparing for a stand your ground defense start to look alike.
And I m a white guy.It s at that point that Soffer pulls a small handgun from his pocket and holds it at his side.
He puts it back in his pocket a few moments later but doesn t remove his hand from the pocket until the police arrive several minutes later.
Before that happens he can be seen advancing towards Davis at one point and defending his idiocy when a woman calls him out for pulling a gun: I was in fear for my life.
I m 74-years-old and I was in fear for my life.
It should be noted that the scary black man looks to be about the same age and was unarmed with the exception of a pretty nice three-piece suit.
What Soffer probably should have said was, this is Arkansas, where I can kill a black man with my spiffy argument-winner and get away with it.
The argument itself was over a public meeting of the election commission, where the meeting was adjourned while a Democrat was speaking, cutting him off mid-sentence.Soffer told the Arkansas Times that he retrieved his gun from his car because he didn t have a good feeling about things; that Davis approached him with a weird look on his face.
He said Davis appeared to be in a trance.
In other words, the scary black man was black, and in the spirit of how black men were convicted across the south for a century for crimes they didn t commit, Soffer claimed he took steps to protect himself kill a man who was definitely black enough to be black and scary and black.Watch the incident unfold for yourself and see if you think Soffer was justified in his close call with the use of deadly force:Featured image from screen capture