Yesterday, a man who is likely an illegal alien was arrested on suspicion of arson in the sanctuary county of Sonoma, where wildfires have devasted the lives of hundreds of thousands of Californians and destroyed structures worth billions of dollars.
The only news, however, that most of America will read about today, is news of an unproven allegation by a Democrat Representative from Texas about a conversation President Trump allegedly had with a grieving military widow.
This story, of course, is a much bigger story, with actual evidence that points to the very real possibility that the Sonoma County Sheriff s office has, in their custody, the arsonist who s responsible for the largest fire in California s history.
It s also quite possible, that without the aid of the local and state government officials, who have gone out of their way to protect illegal aliens living in their communities, we wouldn t even be reading about these horrific wildfires.Sonoma County fires have killed dozens.
172 are still missing and 102,000 residents have been dislocated about one-fifth of the entire population.
The latest financial losses include 3,819 unincorporated parcels with 100 structures valued at $2,016,962,239, and 2,907 homes and 86 commercial units lost in the city of Santa Rosa valued at $1.18 billion.Breitbart The U.S. Immigration & Customs Enforcement Agency (ICE) issued a detainer request on the Sonoma County Jail for Jesus Fabian Gonzalez, who was arrested Sunday on suspicion of arson in Wine Country fires that have killed at least 40 residents.Breitbart News reported earlier this week that Sonoma County Sheriffs had arrested Jesus Fabian Gonzalez, 29, at Maxwell Regional Park in Sonoma County after a series of reports of ongoing fires in the region.
Mr. Gonzalez was observed around 3:00 p.m. PDT wearing a jacket and walking out of the creek area and a plume of smoke behind him, according to the Santa Rosa Press Democrat.LA Times He was screaming really bad things at the police when he was arrested, recalled David Moreno, 29, who witnessed the arrest.
He was yelling things like, I m going to teach you a lesson you ll never forget.
Three Sonoma County probation officers patrolling Maxwell Farms Regional Park just before 3 p.m. noticed a plume of smoke rising from an area near the Sonoma Creek, Sheriff s Department spokeswoman Misti Harris said.Gonzalez walked away from the fire as the officers approached, Harris said.
Nobody else was in the area, Harris said.Sonoma County Sheriff s Department deputies followed Gonzalez to a nearby McDonald s. Gonzalez had previous contacts with law enforcement, she said.Gonzalez told police he started the fire because he was cold, Harris said.
Officers found a lighter in his pocket.
*The recorded temperature at the time that the fires started was a balmy 78 degrees.Some homeless people who knew Gonzalez said that he had a habit of setting fire to brush along the creek bed.Tensions were already high in this smoke-filled region, about 25 miles east of Santa Rosa.Local mechanic Shawn Stephensen, 40, said, A few days ago I was walking down the street with a gas can and someone driving by stopped to say, I wouldn t be carrying a thing like that around at a time like this.
At first I didn t get it, Stephensen, who knew Gonzalez, said.
Then it dawned on me Oh yeah, instant felony case.
Mr. Gonzalez was booked into the Sonoma County Jail for suspicion of felony arson.
His bail was set at a steep $110,000, according to the Sonoma County Sheriff Public Information Officer.Sargent Spencer Crum told Breitbart that Mr. Gonzalez is also on a U.S. Immigration & Customs Enforcement Agency (ICE) detainer request, despite Sonoma County declaring itself as a sanctuary county in May 2014.
The county only cooperates with ICE holds if the prisoner has been convicted of a felony or any misdemeanor offence that falls within the Trust Act within the last five years.
Mr. Gonzalez s immigration status has not yet been announced.The American Civil Liberties Union argues detainers are a violation of unreasonable searches and seizures under the U.S. Constitution s Fourth Amendment.The Sonoma County Sheriff Department s 1.0 Policy Statement reads: No person shall be held solely on the basis of their immigration status.
The policy adds that the immigration status of a person, and the lack of immigration documentation, should have no bearing on the manner in which Sheriff s Office personnel execute their duties.
Gonzalez is being held on bail of $110,000, according to Sonoma County booking records $10,000 for the felony arson charge, and $100,000 for a bench warrant issued in Ventura County.Gonzalez was scheduled to be arraigned Monday in a county jail facility because the courts were closed due to the disaster.
The arraignment was closed to the public and media.Sonoma County Sheriff Rob Giordano on Tuesday afternoon tried to tamp down speculation that Gonzalez was responsible for fires that have killed more than 40 people in Northern California and destroyed thousands of homes.Sonoma County Sheriff Rob Giordano on Tuesday afternoon tried to tamp down speculation that Gonzalez was responsible for fires that have killed more than 40 people in Northern California and destroyed thousands of homes.
There is no indication that he is responsible for these fires, Giordano said.