Gross!
As it turns out, the White House is a wreck with infestations of mice, roaches and ants.
It s being reported that hundreds of work orders have been made to fix numerous problems.
If anyone can fix the White House up to be the best it can be, it s President Trump.
He s a builder and a perfectionist so it s no surprise that he reportedly said the White House is a dump .
He s use to 5-star places so we re betting he ll have the White House in 5-star shape AND under budget in no time .MAGA!Apparently, the White House really is a dump with work orders showing reports of mice and cockroach infestations in the West Wing, broken toilet seats in the Oval Office and numerous other problems.The documents, obtained by NBC4 Washington, were made public this week just months after President Trump reportedly criticized the shape that it was left in by the previous administration.
That White House is a real dump, he said, according to Golf magazine.While the president later denied the comment, it turns out, there really are loads of issues plaguing the historic structure.White House officials made hundreds of requests for repairs, equipment and pest control in 2017 with the US General Services Administration many of which were similar to those made in 2016 during Barack Obama s final year in office, NBC4 reports.The work orders were similar in number and included reports of mice, cockroaches and even ants!Some orders listed simple projects such as broken doors and chairs, while others detailed requests for TV systems and new decor.
It s an enormous job.
GSA is assigned to manage that job, explained former GSA Inspector General Brian Miller.Some of the work that needs to be done inside the White House listed a mid-April deadline, though it s unclear if this was actually met.
It s also not known if any of the aforementioned issues were ever fixed or dealt with.
They are old buildings, Miller said of the grounds at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Any of us who have old houses know old houses need a lot of work.
Via: NYP