Two weeks ago at Middlebury College, Charles Murray needed a safe space literally.In a significant escalation of the campus speech wars, protesters hooted down the conservative scholar in a lecture hall and then roughed up a Middlebury faculty member escorting him to a car.The Middlebury administration commendably tried to do the right thing and stand by Murray s right to be heard, but was overwhelmed by a yowling mob with all the manners and intellectual openness of a gang of British soccer hooligans.The students who brought in Charles Murray framed the evening as an invitation to argue, and in that spirit asked Professor Allison Stanger, a Democrat in good standing, to serve as Murray s interlocutor.
When chanting students commandeered the lecture hall, Stanger and Murray repaired to another room for a livestreamed discussion.Protesters found the room and pounded on the windows and pulled fire alarms.
When Murray and Stanger exited at the end of the livestream and headed for their getaway car, protesters assailed them.
They shoved and grabbed Stanger, who was shaken up and later went to the hospital, and pounded on the car and tried to obstruct it.
She was recently diagnosed with a concussion that she suffered during the liberal beating by Middlebury students.Stanger wrote afterward that she feared for my life.
And for what offense?
Talking to someone who thinks differently than the average Middleburg faculty member or student.Allison Stanger invited Charles Murray, famous for The Bell Curve, to speak at the school.
Students were so outraged Murray had to flee for his life, and Stanger got beaten up.
Her response?It s Trump s fault!During the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, student Red Guards forced professors to make self-confessions.
This situation was clearly different, however, as most of the students were not Chinese.Stanger is smart.
She doesn t have to deal with Donald Trump at her school, but she does have to deal with her fellow leftist faculty members and leftist students.
She s trying to make kissy-kissy with them so they don t smack her in the head again.If I were in her position, I d probably do the same thing.
On the other hand, Vermont is a concealed carry state, so maybe there could be another option when faced with a life-threatening leftist mob.Exit question:1) When someone goes to an emergency room with throbbing head pains and a hardcore leftist worldview, how can an E.R.
doctor determine whether the patient has a head injury or simply a very rigid ideological point of view?
American ThinkerSo in summary, the leftist professor who s made it her mission to indoctrinate Middlebury students, is now blaming President Trump because those same students she encouraged to think and behave like leftists, behaved in a way that is compatible with how leftists behave.
Using violence and threatening behavior to get your way and drown out the opposing voices is nothing new for leftists, they ve just taken it a significant notch since Obama took office 8 years ago.