IMAGE: Democratic Party activist and gunman, James T. Hodgkinson.21st Century WireYesterday, a crazed gunman affiliated with America s radical progressive and Never Trump movement attacked Republican members of Congress and their staff during a practice session for an annual charity baseball game in Alexandria, Virginia.Steve Scalise (R-LA)Among those shot were Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), the third ranking Republican in the House.In total, five people were wounded, including two police officers.
All were taken to local hospitals for treatment.According to Arizona Senator Jeff Flake, Scalise was standing on second base, fielding balls during batting practice when the shooting began.Had the Capitol Police not been on the scene It would have been a massacre, said Kentucky Senator Rand Paul.
As terrible as it is, it could have been a lot worse.
The gunman, James T. Hodgkinson, was shot dead by police, dying later of multiple wounds.Hodgkinson, 66, is from Belleville, Illinois, was an ardent supporter of 2016 Democratic Party presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, but also expressed a rabid hatred of conservatives and President Donald Trump as seen in his Facebook profiles and letters to newspapers.
Trump is a Traitor.
Trump Has Destroyed Our Democracy.
It s Time to Destroy Trump & Co, and Republicans are the Taliban of the USA, said Hodgkinson.Watch this cell phone footage of the event:However, the story appeared to be an embarrassment for Democratic Party-oriented mainstream media outlets like CNN and MSNBC.
Not surprisingly, CNN seemed to avoid any extended coverage of the shooting, opting instead to focus most of its news coverage yesterday on the Grenfell Tower fire in London.
Ever since Hillary Clinton s epic defeat last November, most US mainstream media organizations have been going all-out to discredit the new president.
CNN s own Kathy Griffin, a 56-year-old comedian sparked public outrage last month after releasing a photo and video depicting her holding the bloodied head of President Trump in an ISIS-style video.Other liberal media sources are attempting to frame the attack as a gun control story, rather than a politically-motivated act of domestic terrorism.The following is a live debate which aired on RT International on Wednesday night, featuring 21WIRE s Patrick Henningsen, Tighe Barry from Code Pink, and Lionel a frequent contributor on RT America.
Watch:READ MORE DAILY SHOOTER NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Daily Shooter FilesSUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV