The Department of Justice announced on Wednesday that former FBI Director Robert Mueller has been named as special counsel for the investigation into Donald Trump s likely collusion with Russia.
After a week that has rocked Washington to the core and left the White House in utter chaos, the statement released by Trump in response to the news that special counsel had been appointed shows just how bad things really are within the Oval Office.The statement consisted of a mere three sentences: As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will confirm what we already know there was no collusion between my campaign an any foreign entity.
I look forward to this matter concluding quickly.
In the meantime, I will never stop fighting for the people and the issues that matter most to the future of our country.
The first thing that stands out about this statement is that it is distinctly un-Trumplike.
And this uncharacteristically coherent statement also shows the White House is understanding the gravity of the current situation.
Despite the words themselves, these three short sentences show that Trump clearly knows he is in deep sh*t.After he fired FBI Director James Comey, news broke that Trump had tried to pressure him to drop the Russia investigation and Trump s Twitter feed went silent.
Something very unusual for the tweeter-in-chief.
Until he released this short statement, the only remarks he had made were at a commencement speech for the U.S. Coast Guard, where he whined that he had been treated more unfairly than any other president in history.
(Insert eye roll here.
)At this point, pundits are speculating that Trump may have hired an outside attorney who is telling him to shut the hell up.
No one really knows whether he has sought counsel or not, although he clearly should if he hasn t because he s definitely going to need it.
But his statement and his silence make one thing very clear, Trump knows he s in trouble.
He may want it all to just go away, but the appointment of special counsel guarantees that this matter will NOT be concluding quickly.
And even Trump is smart enough to know it this time.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images