A Tennessee Trump supporter is ecstatic that Obamacare has dramatically lowered her family s insurance costs, but she doesn t credit the Affordable Care Act for her family s good fortune she says God and Trump are responsible.Charla McComic says that her son recently lost his job and, thanks to Trumpcare, his premium dropped from $567 per month to $88 a blessing from God and a gift from her fuhrer Donald Trump, she says.
I think it was just because of the tax credit.
The Washington Post notes that the price change was actually thanks to a subsidy made possible by former president Barack Obama s Affordable Care Act, which is still in place, not by the tax credits proposed by Republicans as part of the health-care bill still being considered by Congress.
Sure, the ACA was passed before Trump even considered running for President and his own health care law one that would strip coverage from millions of low-income families who need coverage the most and, of course, her son s. We said: Who else would we do this for, besides Trump?
McComic, who campaigned for Trump during the 2016 election, says, apparently because she is one of the poorly educated The Donald loves so much.
We agreed on the Lord.
We would stand here for the Lord, but that s about it.
So far, everything s been positive, from what I can tell, she said while waiting for the first elected leader since Adolf Hitler to still hold rallies to begin speaking on Wednesday night.
I just hope that more and more people and children get covered under this new health-care plan.
Contrary to McComic s beliefs, Trump himself knows and freely admits that his supporters will be hurt the most by his plan.
Counties that voted for you, middle class and working class counties, would do far less well under this bill, Fox News host Tucker Carlson recently told Trump.
Yeah.
Oh, I know that.
It s very preliminary, Trump replied.Sorry, Ms. McComic: Trump doesn t care about you, and the President you hated is responsible for your family s good fortune.Featured image via Facebook