Late Show host Stephen Colbert hilariously took aim at bathroom obsessed Republicans on Tuesday night and hit the bulls-eye.Colbert began by talking about how anti-LGBT conservatives have organized a boycott of Target because the company unveiled a policy in which transgender people can use the bathroom corresponding to their gender identity.
And then he told the audience where he stands on the issue.
Here s the thing.
I don t care if you re male or female, what sex or gender identity someone is, I and I mean this sincerely do not want to share a bathroom with anyone.
For two reasons: No.
1 and No.
2, Colbert began.Unlike Republicans, Colbert says when he goes into the restroom he has no desire to look at everyone s genitalia to ascertain whether they are transgender or not.
When I am forced to use a public bathroom which is infrequently, thank God I go in there with blinders on.
I don t know who s next to me.
It could be a centaur next to me, for all I know.
I don t even like to look at myself in the mirror afterwards.
I know what I did.
I m there for a surgical strike get in, get out, minimal casualties.
Colbert doesn t even care if a famous celebrity or a fan is standing next to him.
He simply wants to do his business with no chit-chat and get the hell out.
I m not there to make friends.
If we ve just come out of a movie and you re standing next to me, I don t want to talk about how irreplaceable Robert Downey Jr. is as Iron Man.
I don t care if you re Robert Downey Jr. yourself.
Second, if you re a fan of mine that s wonderful, he continued.
Please don t try to shake my hand in there.
Because I know what you just shook.
Also, if there are a bunch of open stalls, don t take the one next to me.
It s not the buddy system.
With that being said, Colbert concluded that Republicans are the real weirdos for obsessing so much over who is using the bathroom and what their genitalia is.
To all those lawmakers out there who are so obsessed with who s using what bathroom and what plumbing they ve got downtown newsflash: You re the weirdos.
Here s the video via YouTube.Colbert is absolutely right, of course.Republicans are not only obsessed with gay people having sex, they are obsessed with who is using the bathroom.
In fact, they actually expect people to inspect the genitalia of other bathroom users and report them to authorities.Kansas Republicans recently introduced a pair of bills granting students $2,500 every time they see and report a transgender student using the bathroom, which means they would actually have to look at what each person has between their legs in order to cash-in.The fact that conservatives even thought of such bills is sickening.
And considering that Republicans themselves have been arrested for misconduct in bathrooms while not a single transgender person has committed such a crime, it makes one wonder why we don t have laws banning conservatives from using public restrooms.
After all, they seem to be the only ones who can t control themselves.Featured image via screenshot