If there s one person in this entire nation who does not deserve a seat at the State of the Union, it s Kentucky county clerk Kim Davis.
Her reckless abuse of her position of power to deny same-sex couples the right to marry was outright unconstitutional.
So unconstitutional, in fact, that it put her in prison.To top it off, she s not even attending to listen to the president, but rather just be a bigot counterweight in the crowd.
According to her lawyer, Mat Staver: She is not so much looking forward to going so much because of what President Obama has to say, she doesn t have much interest in that, as much as just to be there, to be a visible counterweight.
The most bizarre part of her invitation is that the Congressman who invited her didn t even know that s who he was inviting.
House Freedom Caucus Chairman Jim Jordan (R-OH) apparently didn t have a clue.
He told HuffPo: I didn t invite anyone, Jordan initially said late Tuesday afternoon, as he was jogging to House votes.
When pressed on whether he had given his ticket to the Family Research Council, which then gave it to Davis which is what a Democratic aide told HuffPost had happened Jordan said he would have to confirm with his office.
I don t know, he said.When Jordan was seen later, he confirmed the invitation: Yeah, so we gave a ticket to at the request of the Family Research Council we gave the ticket to Kim Davis family I found out today.
I m being totally honest with you: That s Family Research Council asked us, her family wanted a ticket, and we said OK.' Jordan seems clearly okay with the decision, because even though she s a criminal who didn t follow the law, conservatives nationwide see her as some sort of religious martyr doing her due diligence in the name of the Lord, Constitution be damned.Should Davis be able to attend one of the most prestigious annual events in the nation?
Of course not.
But leave it to Republicans and their quest to bring bigotry front and center as part of their party platform.Featured image: YouTube