AUSTIN A shoving match and war of words nearly turned into a fistfight on the Texas House floor Monday, the final day of a bitterly contentious 140-day legislative session.
This session has been very, very difficult, said Rep. Celia Israel, D-Austin.
There are enough of us here who remember a time in Texas when respect and decorum ruled the day.
Those rules flew out the House door when a group of protesters crashed the chamber s gallery Monday, chanting opposition to the so-called sanctuary cities ban.
Legislators approved a bill this year that would force local governments to enforce federal immigration laws, what opponents call a show-me-your-papers law.Angry illegal aliens flooded the Texas State Capitol building.
They can be seen flooding the capitol building in the video below.
"Greg Abbott escucha!
Estamos en la lucha!"
#txlege #sb4 pic.twitter.com/2PTMXrJiSb James Barrag n (@James_Barragan) May 29, 2017As they protested, Latino Reps. Ramon Romero and Cesar Blanco, both Democrats, waved to the noisy crowd.
Republican Matt Rinaldi of Irving, a fervent supporter of the anti-immigration legislation, approached the Latino Democrats.
They said Rinaldi told them he had called U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to report the protesters, who were largely Hispanic.The Democrats were enraged.
A shoving match ensued, and lawmakers accused one another of making violent threats.
Rinaldi said a Democrat eventually threatened to come get him.
Rep. Justin Rodriguez, D-San Antonio, who didn t witness the initial altercation, said he later heard Rinaldi say, I ll put a bullet in your head, to the Democrat he alleged was menacing.
Dallas NewsHere is Republican legislator Matt Rinaldi s response to the accusation by Democrat legislator Justin Rodriguez:A statement regarding today.
pic.twitter.com/M0BcBXa43P Matt Rinaldi (@MattRinaldiTX) May 29, 2017Illegal aliens have been living in our nation without any fear of repercussions for their actions for over a decade now.
That was before we had a president who took illegal immigration seriously.
Trump s strong position of illegal immigrants has given local lawmakers some hope of restoring law and order to states like Texas that are overwhelmed with an exploding illegal immigration population.