Hecklers at GOP rallies rarely disappoint after all, the Republican presidential candidates have given them so much material to be inspired by.
On Sunday, at one of his last rallies before the Iowa caucus, Ted Cruz had an experience with a heckler he probably won t ever forget.As Cruz gave his stump speech, an audience member shouted that he didn t feel so well while pretending to vomit in a trash can, stating that his illness was because Ted Cruz looks so weird!
This brave heckler wasn t far from Cruz and he repeated it loud and clear just in case the candidate missed it the first time.
Scott Bauer, a reporter for the Associated Press, fortunately captured part of this hilarious interruption on video and tweeted it for all to see:.
@tedcruz enters Des Moines rally pic.twitter.com/06Itp606hN Scott Bauer (@sbauerAP) February 1, 2016Of course, security removed the heckler out of the rally almost immediately and Cruz said, I guess the bars let out early.
On social media, some people in the audience expressed sadness that the heckler was taken away, as the rally certainly could have used him.twitterCruz then used the moment to take a jab at one of his rivals and joked, Is that Donald Trump yelling in the back?
The joke was completely appropriate, considering that Trump and Cruz are competing with each other for the Iowa Caucuses later tonight.It was actually reported by the Associated Press that the heckler was in fact ill so perhaps it was really Cruz s creepy appearance that set the protester off.
It would make perfect sense, considering the unpleasant, cringeworthy effect that Cruz s face had on his own daughter!
To top off Cruz s disastrous, rejection-filled weekend, his tour bus got stuck in the mud in Iowa and he had to hitch a ride with his aides.We ve seen some pretty creative hecklers during the GOP candidate s campaigns so far, and Cruz has had more than his fair share.
Earlier this month, two hecklers actually made it onto Cruz s stage at a gun event, making for a completely awkward moment.
But he s not the only one recently, front runner Donald Trump got treated to tomatoes being thrown at him.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore