President Obama is widely expected to be an extremely valuable asset for the Democratic Party in this November s general election, and he gave a preview of just how he d rip Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump to shreds at a campaign event on Friday night.Speaking to Democrats in Austin, Texas, President Obama talked about Trump s ridiculous Trump steaks show and tell session, noting that there s a debate inside of the other party that is fantasy, and school yard taunts, and sellin stuff like it s the home shopping network.
Obama also mocked the Republican establishment for claiming they are surprised by the hate that Trump has whipped up.
From the White House pool report:Obama also again mocked establishment Republicans, who he argues say We re shocked someone is fanning anti-immigrant or anti-muslim sentiment!
We re shocked!.
We re shocked that someone could be loose with the facts.
Or distort someone s record.
Shocked!
How could you be shocked?
This was the guy who was sure I was born in Kenya.
And wasn t letting go As long as it was being directed at me they were fine with it.
It was a hoot and suddenly they re shocked!
That gamblings going on in this establishment, he said.Obama said Donald Trump is A distillation of what has been going on in their party for more than a decade this is the message that s been fed that you just deny the evidence of science.
That compromise is a betrayal.
That the other side isn t simply wrong, we disagree the other side is destroying the country.
Or treasonous.
Look it up, that s what they ve been saying.
So they can t be surprised when somebody says, I can make up stuff better than that.'
As other Democrats have made clear, Obama said the right had to own what is happening in Trump s campaign: The reaction is something they have to take responsibility for and then make an adjustment.
It is clear that Obama will be out on the trail, making sure that a campaign of hate does not usher in his successor.
Trump has a world of rhetorical hate coming towards him from the President.Featured image via YouTube