The Morning Joe panel just NAILED Donald Trump to the wall.The Republican nominee and Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi have denied that that there was any pay-to-play going on between them when he made a sizable donation to her before she killed the case the Trump University in her state.Trump donated $25,000 to Bondi via his charity, which is illegal and resulted in a $2,500 fine from the IRS.
Bondi dropped the case.
And then Trump held a discounted fundraiser for her at his Mar-a-Lago resort.Definitely sounds fishy, doesn t it?
That s especially true when you consider that Trump has bragged about paying politicians to do his bidding.And the Morning Joe crew had absolutely no problem talking about that history of foot-in-mouth disease on Wednesday.
Trump has said in the past that he gave money to politicians for favors, Mark Halperin said before calling on Trump and Bondi to release any and all documents pertaining to the donation to prove there was no quid pro quo.
To put this to rest, he should put out all of the documentation from his office.
How did this contribution come to be made?
Where s the paperwork?
Where are the emails?
Where are the memos that say, Hey, let s, right now, give Pam Bondi some money.
By the way improperly through our charity.
And, Pam Bondi s office should put out all the internal emails from her office that talk about the decision not to make him part of the litigation.
Maybe there s not any connection, but the onus is on them now.
It s a strange bit of timing, because, again, Trump has bragged, Halperin continued.
This is what he did.
He gave money to politicians in order to control his decisions to get favorable results.
And he said that s how he succeeded.
Mika Brzezinski then jumped in and noted that the timeline is incredibly suspicious before confirming Halperin s remarks about Trump having a history of paying lawmakers for favors.
You can see a timeline and a direct result of the money, Brzezinski said.
Which is what he says he does with money, he buys people off.
He makes deals.
And he got a deal to not be investigated in an area where he has a real weak spot and that s Trump University.
I ve never seen a campaign and a family get more defensive than when you bring up Trump University because they have a weak spot there.
Mika went on to say that it is a weak spot because there are so many people who have been scammed by Trump University.Here s the video via Twitter.Trump denies political motives behind FL Atty.
Gen. donation @morningmika: Trump University is a real weak spot https://t.co/MNmesaiHXX Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) September 7, 2016But that s not all.Later on in the show Brzezinski actually laid out the timeline of Trump s donation and Bondi s subsequent dropping of the case against Trump University.Brzezinski noted that as bad of some of the accusations against Hillary look, there are no connection dot to dot like there are on this Trump scandal.
The 2013 donation by the Donald J. Trump Foundation was made four days after it was announced that Bondi said she was considering joining New York State s investigation into Trump University, she reported.The panel went on to explain that this is why Donald Trump should be forced to hand over his tax returns because they would show all of Trump s shady financial dealings over the years.Here s the video via YouTube.It s time for the IRS to end the audit of Trump s tax returns so that he no longer has that silly excuse to use.
But Trump s pay-to-play scandal with Pam Bondi proves that he is untrustworthy and will likely use the government to help himself if he should become president.
This kind of corruption should concern all voters, which makes it all the more amazing that Trump isn t losing by a wider margin.
Apparently, conservatives like their presidents corrupt and ignorant.Featured image via screen capture