With the election of Donald Trump, many people are pointing fingers in many different directions to try and figure out what exactly just happened.
How the hell did the United States just elect a failed businessman turned reality television host and beauty pageant coordinator to Commander-in-Chief?Perhaps, in part, the media is very much to blame.
They treated Trump s campaign as a joke for the better first half of it, likely not thinking he would get as far as he has.
He was entertainment.
People tuned into to see whatever crazy thing Trump said next.
Unlike his competition, pretty much every rally was televised, he had endless interviews and free air time, and he was sensationalized beyond comprehension.No one was really calling out the awful things he was saying in the mainstream media that was left to those on Twitter on the liberal blogosphere.
Ironically, the same liberal blogosphere that is being blamed for his win and dubbed fake news by those who don t like to admit its honest relevancy.
They were some of the only ones to highlight how horrific Trump actually is.Cornering Jake Tapper of CNN at Los Angeles International Airport was none other than TMZ.
They asked Tapper about the media s role in the election, and he responded: Well, that s an extremely loaded question.
I think there were a lot of media mistakes this season in all sorts of directions.
I think polling needs to be re-examined quite a bit.
Adding: This is probably a subject for a three-hour dissertation, not an airport drive-by.
Certainly there s a lot of people whose behavior and professionalism this election season should be re-examined, thinking about how to do better and how to be better.
That s saying it lightly.
The mainstream media didn t do its job.
They propped Trump up on a pedestal but at the same time never took him seriously enough to properly criticize the horrifying things he consistently said.
So yes, we do need to think about how to do better and how to be better.Watch the interview via TMZ here:Featured image via video screen capture