President-elect Donald Trump recently asked his advisers how many nights a week he would have to spend in the White House.
Trump, who obviously feels being president is a part-time gig, wants to spend as much time at his ritzy penthouse in Manhattan as possible.
Previously, it was believed that Melania Trump would move to Washington but that s not going to happen.Future First Lady Melania Trump and 10-year-old son Barron will not be moving to the White House after Donald Trump s inauguration in January, according to the New York Post.Barron is halfway through a school year in New York.
Melania is extremely close to Barron, and they have become closer during the campaign, a source told the Post.
The campaign has been difficult for Barron, and she is really hoping to keep disruption to a minimum.
According to another source, the future first lady will travel to the White House as needed, but her primary focus is on her son.
Melania is very supportive of her husband and is fully on board of doing everything that s needed as first lady, said the second source.Although no plans are in place, the source said it s possible that Melania and Barron may move to the White House at the end of the school year.The president-elect has been using Trump Tower as his headquarters which has raised concerns over security costs for the city.It s cool with us if Melania wants to remain in New York City but if Michelle Obama had made this same choice, the outrage from conservatives would have been deafening.
And we think it s great Melania has a close relationship with her young son.
Mrs. Obama enjoys an amazing relationship with her daughters, too.
However, she did move them to the White House where first families live.
It s called a double standard.The role of the First Lady includes acting as White House hostess.
We re wondering if Ivanka will fill the role of First Lady in Melania s absence now.
Barron s tuition as the private school is approximately $40,000.Photo by Chip Somodevilla via Getty.