The trend of young Muslim men targeting and attacking white non-Muslims continues world wide.
A group of three Muslim men attacked strangers at the Liverpool city center because they were white non-Muslims.
One witness feared the men were ISIS terrorists because they were using racist language, talking about Muslims and Christians.
A very similar occurrence took place in one of Minneapolis more upscale neighborhoods last year when a mob of up to 30 young Somali men marched through the streets yelling disparaging comments and threatening homeowners:Somalis living in Minneapolis are almost all Sunni Muslims.
Residents of the Lake Calhoun area say this wasn t the first time a group of Somali men have made an intimidating march through their neighborhood, which is filled with million-dollar homes.They first approached victim Gary Bohanna inquiring what religion he was affiliated with.
When Bohanna answered I m a Christian, the attacker shouted Why aren t you a Muslim?
before punching him twice.
The three men then approached Paul Lynch, Labour councillor for Moss Bank, and his girlfriend.
One of the men punched Mr. Lynch with a sickening blow that could be seen and heard.
He did not utter any racist comments, but the attackers laughed as the victim fell.
Both men were taken to the hospital for their injuries.Witness Edris Nosrati called police but one of the men tried to flee, so the witness chased and caught him.
The teenager struck Mr. Nosrati, but the hero held on.
When questioned by police, one of the men claimed he was too intoxicated to remember anything.
Another denied the assaults and suggested they had been racially abused by other men.
However, he later confessed to targeting people because they were white and non-Muslim.
The Counter Terrorism Unit became involved in the investigation and the mens family homes were turned upside down by the police.
Amin Mohmed cried in court as he was jailed for 42 weeks.
Mohammed and Faruq Patel received 42 and 18 weeks respectively in a young offenders institution.Read more: The Echo