Has anyone seen Barack Obama lately?
What about Valerie Jarrett, who actually MOVED IN to the Obama household shortly after exiting the White House?
Why would Obama s 60-year old former senior advisor move into his house with his wife and daughter who is still in high school?
Unless there was some obvious reason for her living with the Obama s, it makes no sense whatsoever.
Why does no one in the media find this arrangement to be even remotely odd?
Is it possible that Barack Obama and his evil puppet-master had something to do with orchestrating what many believe was a fake protest in Charlottesville, as a way to create hate for white people, the Right and more importantly to give Americans a reason to blame President Trump and the Republican Party for the actions of the racist groups who participated in the protests.Immediately after the violence in Charlottesville took place, President Trump took to Twitter and turned to the media to (rightfully) condemn both sides of the conflict.We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for.
There is no place for this kind of violence in America.
Lets come together as one!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 12, 2017Curiously, the former president, who s been keeping a very low profile leading up to the Charlottesville protests, tweeted a response to Charlottesville.
CNN called Obama s response on Twitter, The most linked tweet in the history of Twitter.
CNN was so giddy over the response to Obama s tweet, they actually published an entire story on the success of his tweets:Former President Barack Obama s tweet reacting to the attack in Charlottesville, Virginia, is the most liked tweet ever on the social network.Obama s reaction to the Charlottesville attack is also the fifth-most retweeted behind a tweet from a teen who wanted free chicken nuggets from Wendy s, Ellen Degeneres tweet from 2014 Oscars, a tweet from singer Louis Tomlinson to his One Direction bandmate Harry Styles and Ariana Grande s previously mentioned tweet.So, what exactly was the media s role in using the Charlottesville protests to push the false narrative that, President Trump is a racist?
Nation One News decided to do a little digging into the leader of the allegedly White Supremacist leader who organized the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, and here are a few very curious things they found:First of all, the ACLU defended Jason Kessler and forced the city to keep his permit in place.
This was after the city raised concerns about the ability of Law Enforcement to keep Antifa, BLM, and the New Black Panthers from clashing with the White Supremacists who were attending with Jason Kessler.Here are a few things you need to know about Jason Kessler.First, he supports gun control.
Second, he LOVES Obama and Clinton!
Third, He LOVED the Iran deal struck by Obama!Fourth, Hates Republicans and compared them to Dahmer.Finally, he claims he was Red Pilled into becoming a Trump Supporter ?He claims he was red pilled by the media instigating the Baltimore riots.
However, an Advanced search of his Tweets only reveals one Tweet raising questions or assigning blame for the Baltimore Riots.
That Tweet was sent a month AFTER this so called red pill or change of heart.So who is this guy really?
Well, at least some of rumors on the Internet are True, he was, in fact, a Liberal and he admitted it.
His reason for changing his mind doesn t add up, based on the evidence.He has Tweeted 4843 times and he never mentioned the Baltimore Riots prior to his change of heart.One last thing.We are researching to determine if he used to work for or with CNN.
CNN has not responded to our calls or emails.
It is possible that another Jason Kessler worked for CNN, however, the Jason Kessler from Charlottesville have a gap in his Linked In profile from 2009 to 2013.According to SNOPES, the left wing fact-checker source, they ve talked to CNN, who confirms they never employed the Jason Kessler who clashed with BLM and Antifa in Charlottesville.
So cased closed right?Here is what the LEFT-wing SNOPES had to say:Did Kessler write articles for CNN that were sympathetic to the Occupy movement?False.
Kessler says he never worked for CNN, and we spoke to a source at CNN who confirmed it.
A writer named Jason Kessler was once employed by CNN, and he did cover Occupy Wall Street protests among many other topics, but according to CNN it was not the same Jason Kessler who went on to lead Unite the Right.Except that Americans have become much less trusting of these so-called fact-checkers and sources they used to believe were honest about the news they reported.
We no longer believe anything SNOPES or the Very Fake News CNN has to say.
Jason Kessler used to run a blog called jasonkessler.net, however, the site is conveniently taken down.