More fake news pushing a leftist agenda If you read the USA Today report of Juan Manuel Montes being deported you might believe their headline: First Protected Dreamer Deported Under Trump USA Today reported Tuesday that an illegal immigrant protected by Barack Obama s amnesty was deported in February after spending an evening with his girlfriend.
However, a Department of Homeland Security spokesman told The Daily Caller that this story is false because Juan Manuel Montes Bojorquez did not receive amnesty and was caught climbing over a border fence when he was detained.
Conservative TreehouseThe USA Today story said that Bojorquez, 23, was apprehended by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents while he was waiting for a car ride to pick him up.According to the article, he told the officers he left his wallet in his friend s car and, because he didn t have his ID or proof of his Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status, he was deported.
Within three hours, he was back in Mexico, becoming the first undocumented immigrant with active DACA status deported by the Trump administration s stepped-up deportation policy, the USA Today reporters wrote.The Trump administration has said it will continue honoring the over 750,000 illegal immigrants who receive DACA, but this incident, if accurate, would have been a departure from that policy.
David Lapan, a DHS spokesman, told TheDC, Juan Manuel Montes Bojorquez was apprehended by the Calexico Station Border Patrol after illegally entering the U.S. by climbing over the fence in downtown Calexico.
He was arrested by BP just minutes after he made his illegal entry and admitted under oath during the arrest interview that he had entered illegally.
The spokesman added, His DACA status expired in Aug. 2015 and he was notified at that time.
In addition, he has a conviction for theft for which he received probation.
Daily CallerFrom USA Today: Federal agents ignored President Trump s pledge to protect from deportation undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children by sending a young man back to his native Mexico, the first such documented case, a USA TODAY examination of the new administration s immigration policies shows.After spending an evening with his girlfriend in Calexico, Calif., on Feb. 17, Juan Manuel Montes, 23, who has lived in the U.S. since age 9, grabbed a bite and was waiting for a ride when a U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer approached and started asking questions.Montes was twice granted deportation protections under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program created by President Barack Obama and left intact by President Trump.Montes had left his wallet in a friend s car, so he couldn t produce his ID or proof of his DACA status and was told by agents he couldn t retrieve them.
Within three hours, he was back in Mexico, becoming the first undocumented immigrant with active DACA status deported by the Trump administration s stepped-up deportation policy.
Some people told me that they were going to deport me; others said nothing would happen, Montes told USA TODAY in his aunt and uncle s home in western Mexico where he s been staying.
I thought that if I kept my nose clean nothing would happen.
He asked that the exact location of their home be withheld.Yet Trump declined to revoke the DACA protections Obama had granted to more than 750,000 undocumented immigrants, repeatedly saying he had a soft spot for these young people who are leading productive lives and have few, if any, ties to the countries of their birth.
They shouldn t be very worried, he told ABC News in January.
I do have a big heart.
Even so, DACA enrollees are being targeted by immigration authorities.At least 10 are in federal custody, according to United We Dream, an advocacy organization made up of DACA enrollees and other young immigrants.The group s advocacy director, Greisa Martinez, who has DACA protection, said Montes case is proof that people like herself are at risk despite what Trump said.For entire story: USA Today