Hillary Clinton today falsely called Donald Trump an admitted sex assaulter and compared him to disgraced alleged sex abuser Harvey Weinstein.The failed Democratic presidential candidate, who received thousands in campaign funding from Weinstein, told the BBC s Andrew Marr we have someone admitting to being a sexual assaulter in the Oval Office.
She was referring to the Access Hollywood tape leaked during the campaign where Donald Trump was heard boasting about grabbing women by the p****y in 2005.Mrs.
Clinton is in the UK to promote her hand-wringing book about losing the presidential election.She told Marr: I was really shocked and appalled because I ve known him through politics as many Democrats have.Team player Hillary Clinton tries to deflect attention from the millions of dollars Harvey Weinstein raised for her recent failed presidential campaign by reminding reporters that he also donated to Obama and, for people (she forgot to mention that he ONLY funded DEMOCRAT people) who have run for office in the United States.
He s been a supporter he s been a funder for all of us, for Obama, for me, for people who have run for office in the United States.
So it was just disgusting and the stories that have come out are heartbreaking.
But I think that it s important that we not just focus on him and whatever consequences flow from these stories about his behavior but that we recognize this kind of behavior cannot be tolerated anywhere, whether it s in entertainment, politics.
After all, we have someone admitting to being a sexual assaulter in the Oval Office.
There has to be a recognition that we must stand against this kind of action that is so sexist and misogynistic.
And asked about allegations of sexual misconduct leveled at her husband and former president, Bill Clinton, she said: That has all been litigated.
That was the subject of a huge investigation in the late 90s and there were conclusions drawn.
That was clearly in the past.
It is something that has to be taken seriously, for anyone not just in entertainment.
The really sad part of the campaign was how this horrific tape, what he said about women in the past what he said about women during the campaign, was discounted by a lot of voters.
DMLOL!
Hillary.
You re the only one left standing who believes a single word that comes out of your lying mouth.