It gets weirder and more exploitative with the Republicans on a daily basis.
This time, a party of preschool kids on a field trip to the Greater Iowa Botanical Garden unwillingly served as a backdrop to Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina s anti-abortion speech.
One parent said: The kids went there to see the plants.
She ambushed my son s field trip.
The former Hewlett Packard executive embarked on a day of campaigning in Iowa in an attempt to save her ailing campaign.
The ambush occurred when Fiorina hosted a right to life forum at the Greater Des Moines botanical garden.
She entered the rally before a crowd of about 60 and directed 15 kids to a makeshift stage.
The problem, according to one parent, is that Fiorina did not get permission from any of the parents to sit with her in front of a huge banner bearing an image of an unborn fetus while she talked about the harvesting of organs from aborted babies.
Chris Beck, the father of four-year-old Chatham, said: Taking them into a pro-life/abortion discussion [was] very poor taste and judgment.
I would not want my four-year-old going to that forum he can t fully comprehend that stuff.
He likes dinosaurs, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Transformers.
The discussion about abortion and the vivid images are difficult for adults, but such a heavy topic with its images weighs more on young kids.
During the rally and with children present, an anti-abortion activist carried a scale model of a four-month-old fetus sucking its thumb.
This is the face of abortion, said the activist as Fiorina looked on.Fiorina s campaign apparently doesn t see anything wrong with what she did .
A campaign spokeswoman said: We were happy that these children chose to come to Carly s event with their adult supervisor.
So four-year-old children chose to come to an event to hear about abortion?
Is she nuts?
It s no surprise that Fiorina s campaign is foundering, polling at 1.5% in Iowa.
Her opportunist approach to using little kids for political purposes, exposing them to pictures and rhetoric they don t understand, all without permission from their parents, is alarming and tells us a lot about her.Watch the video below:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=giv4p1HXyhE]Featured image via YouTube screen capture