Donald Trump is definitely a controversial figure and his run for the Republican nomination for the presidency has been a source of revulsion to many as a result of his racist and misogynist ways.
Well folks, get ready to be repulsed even more!
Here s a photo of the Donald and his natural born daughter Ivonka in 1996:A picture of Donald Trump, with his daughter Ivanka, perched atop two concrete parrots having sex.
pic.twitter.com/TFse8gM1An Tim Ireland (@bloggerheads) January 31, 2016Now, there are several things that are clearly wrong with this photo that would cause an involuntary, forceful expulsion of the contents of one s stomach through the mouth.The most important reason: It s his daughter!
Ivonka is sitting in between her dad s legs while he has his arms around her waist.
This is not a photo of a loving father with his daughter.
Rather, it s an older creepy looking dude with a very young woman.There are simply too many sexual messages in this photo that make it unnatural and wrong.
For example, what the hell are those parrots in the photo doing?
You guessed it, the big parrot is f***ing the little parrot!Ivanka Trump was born in 1981 and this photo was taken in 1996.
That means that Ivonka was around 15 at the time the photo was taken.
That means she s underage!
Why would any parent allow his underage daughter to wear such an outfit knowing that millions of people will potentially see it?
No responsible parent would do such a thing with his kid.Donald Trump has said some pretty creepy things about his daughter in the past.
Here s what he said in 2006 on ABC s the View when the host asked him about how he would feel if Ivonka posed for Playboy: It would be really disappointing not really but it would depend on what s inside the magazine.
I don t think Ivanka would do that, although she does have a very nice figure.
I ve said if Ivanka weren t my daughter, perhaps I d be dating her.
In 2003, Trump bragged about his daughter s body on the Howard Stern Show: You know who s one of the great beauties of the world, according to everybody?
And I helped create her.
Ivanka.
My daughter, Ivanka.
She s 6 feet tall, she s got the best body.
She made a lot money as a model a tremendous amount.
And this guy, folks, is leading the polls for the Republican nomination for the presidency of the United States.
It tell us a lot about the Republican party.Featured Image Via Wikimedia Commons.