You know that well-regulated militia that is mentioned in the Second Amendment?
Well, one of their members just shot the 12-year-old daughter of the group s leader.
Yes, the same group of responsible gun owners our friends on the Right deem necessary to fend off a tyrannical government can t handle their toys well enough to avoid shooting children they inexplicably bring to target practice.The III% Idaho group was meeting at a local gun range after the group, which was involved in the armed occupation of Malheur National Wildlife Refuge last month, decided to enjoy some target practice to blow off the sort of steam one needs to blow off after a total defeat at the hands of a tyrannical government.
According to the president of the group, Brandon Curtiss, the accident occurred when a member failed to take proper safety precautions while clearing a gun.Curtiss says the weapon discharged, and the bullet ricocheted off a metal table beside a shelter and struck the girl in the stomach.
The projectile pierced through the girl s abdomen and exited out the other side a true testament to freedom.
Sandra Sullivan shared a post from the Pacific Patriots Network containing details.
While clearing a weapon there was an accidental discharge, the bullet hit the metal table under the canopy area and then ricocheted where it then struck the 12 year old daughter of Sean Odie O Donahue in the stomach then exiting through her side, Sullivan s message reads.
I spoke to Sean and it sounds as if she is going to be ok, she was able to tell him she loved him as they were loading her into the helicopter.
The post then begs for donations to help the girl rather than for justice the sort that should end with the shooter behind bars for his negligence reminding members that now is not the time to ask for details.
The III% Idaho group showed up to aid Ammon Bundy in the occupation of Malheur by securing the perimeter, but his group s offer was ultimately rejected by the armed insurgency leader.
The group also took part in Cliven Bundy s armed standoff with federal officials in 2014 something the FBI may want to remember if they consider any additional charges against militants.Sure, these people believe that they are somehow defending freedom by playing cowboy, but in the end they are just a group of people who should never touch a gun a group that, unfortunately, spends most of its time playing Cowboys and Tyranny.The girl is reportedly recovering from her injuries.Featured image via Facebook