A Graham Park Middle School student was arrested in front of his peers and later charged with larceny, after a school police officer accused him of stealing a $.65 carton of milk.On the day he was arrested, Ryan Turk says he went through the school cafeteria lunch line as usual.
When he got to his seat, however, the student realized that he had forgotten to pick up a carton of milk with his meal.He went back to the food service area to grab a carton of milk, but before he could return to his seat he was grabbed by a police officer, who was assigned to the school by the Prince William County Police Department.The officer accused him of stealing the carton of milk.Turk says the police officer grabbed him by his arm and then accused him of stealing and trying to conceal the milk.
The teen admits that he pulled away from the officer, telling him get off of me because he s not my dad.
The student was placed in handcuffs, taken to the principal s office and suspended from school.Later the teen learned that he was being charged with larceny over the carton of milk.The student qualifies for the school s free lunch program.Ryan s mother, Shamise Turk, is outraged over the charges.During an interview with WJLA she said she has been trying to get the teen back in school, but so far that has not happened.
I m angry, I m frustrated, I m mad.
It just went too far, the teen s mother said.
They are charging him with larceny, which I don t have no understanding as to why he is being charged with larceny when he was entitled to that milk from the beginning.
This is what Prince William County taxpayers are paying police and school officials to do?
These officials seem to think that prosecuting a middle-schooler over a $.65 carton of milk is a responsible use of taxpayer resources.Charging this student with larceny has nothing to do with justice.
This entire thing is nothing more than an outrageous abuse of power.Here s more on the story from WJLA.
Featured image via video screen capture WJLA