Those of us on the left have long said that the Republican base took a jump off the cliff into crazy land never to return a long time ago.
Well, now, one of their own is saying the same.
Geraldo Rivera, famed host of trash TV turned GOP mouthpiece, has come out and echoed what we have all been saying for ages: his party is bashit insane.
Rivera went on Fox News this weekend and spoke with Howard Kurtz, who pointed out that the Fox correspondent was likely a little uncomfortable with Republican frontrunner Donald Trump s comments regarding immigrants from Mexico, considering the fact that it is well documented that Rivera and Trump have been bosom buddies for many years.Rivera said: He is a friend of mine, I do love the guy.
And then he said Mexican immigrants are dope dealers and rapists.
Indeed.
We all remember The Donald s infamously racist tone upon the opening of his travesty of a presidential campaign.
It s nice to know that it did not go unnoticed by Rivera.Rivera continued: Though I have a deep respect for him and his family, I could never vote for him unless he moderates that position.
It is easy for me to draw that line, I can go that far but no further.
You have to be compassionate to this [immigrant] population.
Well, that s good to know.
One less vote for that lunatic Trump, even from a self-professed right winger in the public eye.
Rivera went on to say that he thinks that, Donald doesn t really mean it, and then let loose on what those on the left already have known about the GOP s base for a very long time now: I think you have to be a crazy person to get the Republican nomination these days.
I think that they have to tow a line that is in many ways intolerable for a reasonably intelligent compassionate person.
You have to clear the [anti-immigrant Rep. Steven King] hurdle in Iowa to get anywhere.
Steven King is the congressman that said of Mexican immigrants that they have the calves the size of cantaloupes because they are all carrying dope across the border.
I mean, if you have to please that person to get past the nation s first primary election then you are doomed to a radical position that will never fly with the American electorate, and you can never be elected.
Well, yeah.
I mean, even though most Republicans are that nutty and ignorant, there are plenty of moderates who cannot look the other way on such positions, and certainly independents and left wingers can t. Despite the circus that is the current state of American politics, most of us really just aren t that nuts, thankfully.I might not agree with Geraldo Rivera on much, but this time he is right on the money the current incarnation of the Republican Party is beyond crazy.Watch Rivera s comments below:Featured image via video screen capture