It what can only be seen as a situation where you want to feel bad for a person, but really don t, one supporter of repealing Obamacare just learned the hard way that they re against their own healthcare.All names have been blacked out, so pardon the anonymity.
However, Helen Kennedy from Twitter seemed to get her hands on the really sad conversation.It began with a post on Facebook from this someone who is against Obamacare and posted the vote and said: One step closer to fixing this mistake, and only a couple weeks left of Barry s regime.
2017 is already looking up.
This is when it gets sad.
Someone pointed out that repealing the Affordable Care Act will strip health aid from those who desperately need it.
This is when the person responds: First we re talking about Obamacare, not the ACA.
Secondly, my health insurance is through the ACA, so I m definitely not the kind of person to look down on others for needing help This is when someone points out to this person that they re on Obamacare, which is just another name for the Affordable Care Act.This original posters replies: I m not on Obamacare.
My health insurance is through the ACA (Affordable Care Act), which was what they had to come up with after Obamacare crashed and burned as bad as it did.
So I m gonna be fine.
Then response after response came in explaining that they are, in fact, the same thing.
And as of the screengrab, the original poster hadn t responded.Here s the tweet:Facebook nitwit celebrating Obamacare repeal finds out Obamacare is another name for the ACA he depends on.
pic.twitter.com/ehStqChXqq Helen Kennedy (@HelenKennedy) January 9, 2017This makes you wonder how many people out there really don t know that Obamacare and the Affordable Care Act are the same thing.
And it s actually kind of sad.
They ve been spoon fed lies by Republicans to hate the very thing they are now reliant on just by calling it another name that associates it with Obama.
Which, by the way, is the only reason they want the repeal, so Obama doesn t have the legislative victory.This poor person.
Hopefully, they change their stance sooner rather than later, but it seems their entire world has been rocked.Featured image via Giphy