Something big happened in Texas, and Hillary Clinton is going to love it.The Dallas Morning News, a highly conservative publication that has always supported Republicans, made the shocking announcement they would not be endorsing Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, and instead threw their support behind Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.Here s why that s a big deal.The paper, which made its endorsement Wednesday morning, wrote that the decision was not easily reached, but acknowledged the significance:This newspaper has not recommended a Democrat for the nation s highest office since before World War II if you re counting, that s more than 75 years and nearly 20 elections.
The party s over-reliance on government and regulation to remedy the country s ills is at odds with our belief in private-sector ingenuity and innovation.
Our values are more about individual liberty, free markets and a strong national defense.We ve been critical of Clinton s handling of certain issues in the past.
But unlike Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton has experience in actual governance, a record of service and a willingness to delve into real policy.The only other time the News neglected to endorse a Republican was in 1964 when Barry Goldwater ran although they did not endorse Lyndon B. Johnson.While the News was not head over heels for Clinton, chiding her for her dodgy nature and her willingness to shade the truth, the conclusion was made that her bipartisan approach to governing offered a stark contrast to Trump s campaign of exploiting base instincts of xenophobia, racism and misogyny.
Flying in the face of typical conservative speak, the News also shot down the ridiculous alt-right conspiracy theories that she is treasonous and a murderer.
Avoiding the unnecessary gobbledygook that comes with Republican talking points (they referred to these people as political hyenas ), the News finished with a straightforward appeal to its readers:After nearly four decades in the public spotlight, 25 of them on the national stage, Clinton is a known quantity.
For all her warts, she is the candidate more likely to keep our nation safe, to protect American ideals and to work across the aisle to uphold the vital domestic institutions that rely on a competent, experienced president.Hillary Clinton has spent years in the trenches doing the hard work needed to prepare herself to lead our nation.
In this race, at this time, she deserves your vote.And just like that, a Republican newspaper that never dared to endorse a Democrat has endorsed arguably the most famous Democratic feminist this country has ever seen.
Of course the readers were upset with the News, calling the editorial board sellouts, pathetic, shameful, etc.
Some even accused DNC operatives of coercing or bribing the board to endorse Clinton.When Republicans feel threatened, they pounce.
And the irony is so rich the same political hyenas the News espoused as crazy conspiracy theorists are now flocking to their website, accusing them of being DNC or Clinton plants.You ve got to love what the Republicans have turned into.
No wonder the News endorsed Clinton.
And the timing is great.
A recent Washington Post/SurveryMonkey poll has Clinton winning Texas by 1 point over Donald Trump.While not a Hillary Clinton love fest, the paper did show amazing courage in standing up for what is right, putting country before politics.Featured image via Mark Makela/Getty Images