Senator Elizabeth Warren continued her crusade against Donald Trump on Monday and she she did not hold back.Upon voting to exit the European Union last week, Britain sparked a $2.1 trillion loss across global markets as the Republican nominee cheered.
And Warren did not like that one bit, because the financial downturn will affect ordinary Americans more than it affects him.So during a stop in Ohio with Hillary Clinton, Warren tore into Trump in defense of all the Americans who may experience setbacks of their own due to the Brexit vote.
Donald Trump says he ll make America great again, she began.
It s stamped on the front of his goofy hat.
You wanna see goofy, look at him in that hat.
When Donald Trump says great, I say, Great for who, exactly?
For millions of kids struggling to pay for an education?
For millions of seniors barely surviving on Social Security?
For families that don t fly to Scotland to play golf?
she asked rhetorically.
When he says Make America Great he means make it great for rich guys just like Donald Trump.
Great for the guys who don t care how much they ve already squeezed from everyone else.
Great for the guys who always want more.
Because that s who Donald Trump is, the guy who wants it all for himself.
And watch out, because he will crush you into the dirt to get what he wants.
And then she blasted him for being happy about financial crises that hurt millions of Americans.
Donald Trump cheered on Britain s current crisis which has sucked billions of dollars out of your retirement accounts because he said it might bring more rich people to his new golf course.
He cheered on the 2008 housing crash because he could scoop up more real estate on the cheap.
And he cheered on students desperate enough to sign up for his fake university so he could bleed them dry and turn a profit for himself.
What kind of a man does that?
What kind of a man roots for people to lose their jobs, to lose their homes, to lose their life savings?
I ll tell you what kind of a man.
A small insecure, money-grubber who fights for no one but himself.
A nasty man who will never become President of the United States.
She then introduced Hillary Clinton to thunderous applause, thus making it clear that she would be a great choice if she is picked as Hillary s vice-presidential running mate.Here s the video via YouTube.Hillary Clinton would be wise to choose Warren as her VP.
Not only would it be an all-female ticket, it would help solidify her status among progressives who haven t fallen in line to support her.
And if this speech foreshadows anything it s that Donald Trump is about to get his ass handed to him in November by two women instead of just one.Featured image via screenshot