After White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer decided he would say Adolf Hitler wasn t as bad as Syrian President Assad, as well as claim that Hitler never gassed his people, many people were outraged, and justifiably so.Either Spicer is an absolute moron, or he truly doesn t believe the atrocities that were committed by Nazi Germany to their own people, primarily those who were Jewish, and the people of neighboring regions.Offering to basically be Spicer s tutor on the Holocaust because he is so clearly a moron, the Anti-Defamation League s CEO Jonathan Greenblatt wrote the press secretary a letter.Here s the letter in full: Dear Mr. Spicer:This week Jews around the world have spent time with their families celebrating Passover, the feast of freedom.
In the Passover liturgy, we read that in each generation there will be those who rise up to harm the Jewish people, much like Pharaoh in ancient times and Hitler in modern times.
Understanding and being keenly aware of our history to never forget is part of Passover and part of the Jewish experience.Unfortunately, when the first days of Passover ended and we turned on our phones and televisions yesterday evening, we learned about your comment that Hitler did not gas his own people.
Your comparisons between Assad and Hitler were not only historically inaccurate but they also were inappropriate and offensive.While you have apologized, this week s incident as well as others (notably, the International Holocaust Remembrance Day statement omitting Jews and your vociferous defense of it), have exposed a serious gap in your knowledge of the Holocaust, its impact, and the lessons we can learn from it.For decades, ADL has been at the forefront of Holocaust education, providing trainings about the Nazi atrocities to a wide range of groups.
We have conducted trainings for more than 130,000 law enforcement professionals and more than 35,447 educators, reaching more than 1,000,000 students.
Our programs provide historical context for how the Holocaust was able to occur; teach the Holocaust as a human story; and create opportunities for critical thinking.
Each of these educational programs focuses on the consequences of unchecked bigotry and hate.ADL would be happy to conduct one of these trainings at your convenience for you, your staff, and anyone at the White House who may need to learn more about the Holocaust.
We know you are very busy, but we believe a few hours learning this history will help you understand where you went wrong and prevent you from making these mistakes in the future.Sincerely,Jonathan A. Greenblatt CEO Anti-Defamation League Hopefully, Spicer takes the ADL up on their offer and gets the education he so clearly needs.
In addition, he still needs to be fired.Featured Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images