The Anheuser-Busch Brewery put beer production on hold this week, instead of canning safe drinking water to distribute to flooding victims affected by Hurricane Harvey.More than 50,000 cans of emergency drinking water will be sent from the brewing company s factory in Cartersville, Ga., a spokesperson for Anheuser-Busch said to FOX5.The water will be distributed at Red Cross shelters in Baton Rouge, La., where Flash Flood Watch is in effect through Thursday, according to the National Weather Service.
Throughout the year, we periodically pause beer production at our Cartersville, Ga., brewery to produce emergency canned drinking water so we are ready to help out communities across the country in times of crisis, said Sarah Schilling, brewmaster at the Anheuser-Busch brewery in a statement.
Putting our production and logistics strengths to work by providing safe, clean drinking water is the best way we can help in these situations, she said.
FOX NewsMeanwhile, Joel Osteen, the pastor of the Lakewood megachurch in Houston, TX, is being hammered on social for keeping the doors to his church closed to victims of the worst recorded flood in Houston s history.
Osteen s net worth is valued at over $40 million.
In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Joel Osteen tweeted to his followers:Victoria & I are praying for everyone affected by Hurricane Harvey.
Please join us as we pray for the safety of our Texas friends & family.
Joel Osteen (@JoelOsteen) August 26, 2017Apparently, many folks on Twitter didn t feel as though the pastor, who also happens to be mega-rich, is doing enough to help the people who have supported his luxury lifestyle for years.One Twitter user published photos that were allegedly taken in the parking lot of the Lakewood megachurch following the massive flooding.
If these pictures are indeed accurate, the Lakewood church appears to be unaffected by the flooding.UPDATE: Joel Osteen's Lakewood Church in Houston IS accessible.
Their statement it's inaccessible is a LIE.
Pic from 1-hr ago!
pic.twitter.com/S8v57Bh68R TRUMP 24/7 (@MichaelDelauzon) August 28, 2017This Twitter user reminded Olsteen that the church belongs to God and not to him.
Collin Rugg tells Osteen to Open up His doors & let the people of Houston in!
Joel Osteen,"Your" mega church doesn't belong to you, it belongs to GodOpen up His doors & let the people of Houston in!#HoustonStrong Collin Rugg (@CollinRugg) August 29, 2017This Twitter user offered a similar sentiment:Joel Osteen has made millions in Jesus' name, but when it comes time to actually act like a Christian he fails spectacularly.
#Houston Lori O.
(@lori_oh) August 28, 2017This Twiter user posted a picture of his Catholic priest actually working in the Houston floods to help victims.This is Father David Bergeron, the Father at my Catholic Church.
He was out in a kayak yesterday blessing+helping ppl, Joel Osteen who????
pic.twitter.com/oVsNWniUsx Triiodide Ion (@alfredomorenx) August 28, 2017Outspoken conservative Pastor Greg Locke reminded Osteen of his obligation to show the love of Christ at this very moment , telling him to OPEN THE DOORS.
Joel Osteen, as a Pastor you have a huge obligation to show the love of Christ at this very moment.
OPEN THE DOORS.
#HoustonStrong Pastor Greg Locke (@pastorlocke) August 28, 2017If the New Orleans Saints could open their stadium to the public during Katrina, Joel Osteen can open up his church for the Houston flooding Collin Rugg (@CollinRugg) August 28, 2017Please understand that Joel Osteen does NOT represent Christianity.
Never has, never will.
@JoelOsteen #HoustonStrong #MAGA pic.twitter.com/5sSaUrzFvY M A N them (@mikandynothem) August 28, 2017Joel Osteen's megachurch is designed for the rising tithe, not tide.
Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) August 28, 2017