This literally made me scream at my television in rage.If there is one person who has been more hypocritical than Donald Trump throughout this election year, it s Kellyanne Conway.Time and time again, she has defended Trump s claims that the election is rigged and supported him when he incited his protesters to threaten violence when he refused to say that he would concede the election if the results didn t go his way.But there Conway was on Fox News on Sunday morning whining to Chris Wallace about anti-Trump protesters and painting Trump as an example of unity.After being asked about outgoing Senator Harry Reid s message that the responsibility for healing the nation rests at Donald Trump s feet because he divided the nation for a year and a half with bigoted and hateful rhetoric, Conway reacted like the total hypocritical bitch she is.
I find Harry Reid s public comments and insults about Donald Trump and other Republicans to be beyond the pale.
They re incredibly disappointing, Conway said even though she never said the same thing about Trump when he publicly insulted a long list of people and groups during his campaign.
Then she warned Reid that there could be some retaliation.
He should be very careful about characterizing somebody in a legal sense.
He thinks he being some kind of political pundit there, but I would say be very careful about the way you characterize it.
Seriously, this is the kind of bullshit that petty tyrants display when something is said about them that they don t like.And if that weren t enough, Conway actually had the gall to attack the people who are protesting Trump.
I m calling for responsibility and maturity, Conway began despite the fact that her boss never exercised either of those during the election.
The hypocrite then complained about being allegedly booed and spit on at the protests and accused the protesters of being at Trump Tower for nefarious reasons.
You know, because she would be saying the same thing about Trump supporters had they lost the election, right?
She then lectured Reid that he has a platform to do good here, completely ignoring the irony of her statement.
For over a year, Trump has had hundreds of opportunities to use his platform to do good here and he squandered it.
Instead, he promoted bigotry, incited violence and hate against others and was the complete opposite of a role model for children.Speaking of children, Conway had this infuriating thing to say.
I want the children of America to see decency and honor from our leaders and elected officials and they re seeing that in President-elect Trump.
Seriously.
Conway actually spewed this bullshit.And then she suggested that President Obama has not been a decent and honorable man until this week.Here s the video via YouTube.
Try not to punch your computer or smash your phone as your anger rises.Donald Trump and Kellyanne Conway have no right to expect unity when all they did throughout this campaign is divide.
They certainly have no right lecturing anyone on the concepts of decency, responsibility, honor, or maturity.
Neither of these sorry excuses for a human being ever displayed an ounce of those concepts throughout the last year and a half, nor did they display these concepts at any point during the last eight years.
For some reason, people like Conway expect everyone to kiss Donald Trump s ass for the sake of unity but they conveniently forget the utter disrespect and contempt they had for President Obama.
They refused to unite behind President Obama and they exercised nothing but immaturity, irresponsibility, indecency, and dishonor from day one.
And NOW they expect the opposite for Trump!?
Unbelievable.Featured Image: Screenshot