Sorry, David Daleidin and Sandra Merritt, even if you don t like your first Grand Jury, you can keep it.On Wednesday, lawyers for the pair of anti-abortion activists who were recently indicted on multiple felony counts in a surprise twist to a case conservatives hoped would end Planned Parenthood forever, argued that the Grand Jury that handed out indictments was absolutely out of control.
Unfortunately, things didn t quite go as the lying liars who produced the heavily edited, fraudulent baby parts videos that prompted Robert Lewis Dear to attack a Planned Parenthood facility in Colorado, and Carly Fiorina to redefine stupid in her almost incoherent ravings about the health organization, had planned.Harris County District Attorney Devon Anderson said that she does not intend to cave to the whims of the right-wing activists, explaining that the inconvenient truth of a criminal investigation is that it doesn t always lead where you want it to go.
Anderson, a Republican who is against abortion, explained that she understands that every single one of her personal beliefs does not have to interfere with her ability to perform her job:While the Grand Jury indicted the activists the subject of the proceedings, Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, was cleared of all wrongdoing.Reuters reports:Documents filed in Harris County court showed fake California driver s licenses for the pair when they were making the video.
Lawyers for the two did not dispute the fake IDs.The court papers said the pair unlawfully used a fake government record with the intent to defraud or harm others.
They face up to 20 years in prison if convicted.Terry Yates, an attorney for the two, said in Houston: The grand jury has over reached, obviously a runaway grand jury would do that.
This decision, of course, is shocking in a state whose Republicans recently gutted Planned Parenthood s HIV prevention program in a desperate attack against the organization.
Both Governor Greg Abbott and Attorney General Ken Paxton, who ordered their own proceedings, say that this latest vindication of Planned Parenthood will have no impact on their individual attempts to destroy the health organization.
The fact remains that the videos exposed the horrific nature of abortion and the shameful disregard for human life in the abortion industry, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton told the Houston Press Monday.
The state s investigation of Planned Parenthood is ongoing.
Planned Parenthood is celebrating this as a win.
It s great news because it demonstrates what we have said from the very beginning, which is that Planned Parenthood is following every rule and regulation, and that these people came into our buildings under the guise of health when their true intentions were to spread lies, said Rochelle Tafolla, a spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, after the decision.Sorry, David and Sandra.
It must be terrible not to have a choice in the matter.Featured image via Allen West Republic/LifeNews