This is just another example of the rampant indoctrination of our children by the anti-American left God bless these local veterans who came forward in defense of our American flag:A teacher who allegedly stomped on the American flag during a high school lesson on free speech has been fired.The Martinsville School District board has unanimously voted 6-0 to fire English teacher Jordan Parmenter, WGLT reports.The teacher incensed students after he stepped on the flag during a May lesson on free speech at Martinsville Junior-Senior High School.According to a student in the class, Parmenter was using a small American flag as a pointer for a chart and when the student said it was disrespectful, the teacher said he then made what he says was the rash decision of dropping the flag to the floor and stepping on it to illustrate an example of free speech as part of the lesson that day, according to the Journal Gazette.
We can t figure out why he actually went to the simulations of actually doing it, Jonathon Smith, a senior at the school, was quoted as saying by TristateHomePage.com last month.
He talked about it being the right to do whatever he wants.
That s why it was there so he could do whatever he wants, but we have no idea why he would actually take it down and basically start all this.
Several residents reportedly protested outside the school after the incident to bring attention to it, walking a flag back and forth in front of the building.
It s just disgraceful, protester Clifford Clouser, a U.S. Navy veteran, told WTHI-TV while fighting back tears.
There s just so much history in that flag some good, some bad but it s still our flag.
Protester Nicholas Gibson, a veteran of the U.S. Marines, told the TV station, It should have never happened.
I m very proud of these kids that have stood up for what they believe in.
Parmenter wrote a letter of apology to the school board, but it wasn t enough to save his job.The teacher wouldn t speak to the media following his termination, except to say he plans to speak with his union representative, according to Fox 2.Via: EAG News