Republicans are desperately trying to fix Donald Trump s latest foreign affairs trainwreck.
On Saturday, Trump actually hung up on the prime minister of Australia after a heated phone call.
Now, GOP senators are left to clean up the mess he has made with one of our oldest and closest allies.The call between Trump and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull was scheduled to last an hour, but after about 25 minutes Trump declared that their conversation had been the worst call by far and hung up the phone.
As details of the call began to make headlines, Trump threw another tantrum and sent out this tweet:Do you believe it?
The Obama Administration agreed to take thousands of illegal immigrants from Australia.
Why?
I will study this dumb deal!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2017Sen.
John McCain released a statement on Thursday which said he had called Ambassador Joe Hockey and tried to smooth things over.
I called Australia s Ambassador to the United States this morning to express my unwavering support for the U.S.-Australia alliance, McCainsaid.McCain said that he asked Hockey to convey to the people of Australia that Americans honor the sacrifice of the Australians who have served and are serving by our side, and remain committed to the safer, freer, and better world that Australia does far more than its fair share to protect and promote.
In his statement, McCain noted that the U.S. and Australia have fought on the same side since World War I.
He added that the countries alliance is more important than ever right now.
In short, Australia is one of America s oldest friends and staunchest allies.
We are united by ties of family and friendship, mutual interests and common values, and shared sacrifice in wartime, he said.Sen.
Bob Corker said he has also contacted Australia s ambassador to echo McCains words.
Corker, who is the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, spoke to Hockey on Thursday and stressed the importance of the alliance between the U.S. and Australia.
Just got off the phone with Ambassador @JoeHockey.
We discussed the important and long-lasting alliance between our two countries.
Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) February 2, 2017 Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images