Despite having run one of the most disgusting campaigns most of us have ever witnessed, the not-my-president-elect told Matt Lauer of the Today Show that he s not to blame for the division in America.
Of course he did.
Trump was featured as Time Magazine Person of The Year on the cover Wednesday, which named him President of the Divided States of America.
It is a great honor.
It means a lot especially me growing up reading Time Magazine, Trump told Lauer.
I have been lucky enough to be on the cover many times.
Which is an odd statement considering he blasted Time magazine in Dec. 2015 on Twitter when he was not chosen.
Lauer was quick to point that out.
When you say divided states of America, I didn t divide them, Trump continued to say.
They re divided now.
I think putting divided is snarky, but again, it s divided.
I m not president yet.
So I didn t do anything to divide.
SURE, he didn t. The future Demagogue-In-Chief called his Democratic opponent Crooked Hillary at every campaign rally, working the crowd into a frenzy.
Lock her up!
chants commenced at each of his campaign stops.
Hate crimes have increased.
Every white supremacist group across the board endorsed the acidic alleged billionaire.
But he s not a divider.
Just ask him.At that point, Lauer grilled him over his use of Twitter, a social site in which he has dished out conspiracy theories to his nearly 17 million followers.
I think I am very restrained, and I talk about important things, he said.
That s a modern day form of communication.
I get it out much more faster than a press release.
I get it out much more honestly than dealing with dishonest reporters, Trump added.Well, if by restrained he means attacking Saturday Night Live and the cast of the musical Hamilton, then he has a point.
Otherwise, he s so full of shit we re going to have to attach a toilet flush to his jaw.
As for not being sworn in yet, that s true.
But he s the president-elect and needs to put his big boy pants on so he can get to work.
It s going to be a loooong four years.Photo by Scott Olson via Getty.