This will be IRREVERSIBLE!
Call your Congressman or Congresswoman TODAY and DEMAND they stop this!Frank Gaffney was on Breitbart Radio speaking about the impending takeover of the internet.
He was pleading for Americans to call Mitch McConnell and urge him not to give up the Internet don t let this happen, make sure the Continuing Resolution doesn t permit that.He had a great idea of bringing pressure to bear on the Democrats through their presidential candidate:Let s call out Hillary Clinton, to find out whether she supports Barack Obama in diminishing our country, undermining our friends and our own interests, and emboldening our enemies.
I call that the Obama Doctrine whether she s actually gonna stand with Donald Trump and say, Don t give up the Internet.
We need her help on this, and if she does it, I think most, if not all, of the Democrats in the Senate will agree, and will stop being obstructionists, will support a sound measure on this count, at least, on the Continuing Resolution.And again, we ve got three days to fix this, folks.
This is no drill.
This is a live-fire exercise.
We need your help, now.I think the more people understand what s going on here, the more we re gonna have the right outcome.
The challenge, as with so much of the Obama agenda, as you know, Alex, is trying to slip it under the radar.
Keep people from figuring it out until it s done.And this is the real hook.
This will be irreversible.
Once this so-called mechanism known as the numbering and naming function is permanently and irreversibly to some multinational non-profit which will, trust me, be dominated in due course, if not right away, by the Russians, and the Chinese, and the Saudis, and so on we re not getting that back.
There s not anything a President Trump is gonna be able to do about it, if he does, in fact, become president.It s three days from now.
It s October 1st, the end of the fiscal year.
It s what Obama s been striving for, is to jam this thing through, while nobody s paying attention.
We can t let that happen.Read more: Breitbart