There are plenty of politicians of many stripes who are very afraid of the idea of a Donald Trump presidency, and with good reason.
One of them seems to be former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg.
Bloomberg was once a Democrat, but switched his party affiliation to Independent circa the year 2000, and ran and won the city s mayorship as a Republican before formally becoming a member of the GOP.
However, Bloomberg is definitely not a fall into line party guy.In 2012, he endorsed President Barack Obama s second bid for the White House, and now, here in 2016, he is endorsing Hillary Clinton for president.
Bloomberg is not only endorsing Clinton, but he will speak at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia during prime time.
That means he will be going on during the same time as Democratic stars such as President Obama and Vice President Joe Biden.
One of Bloomberg s top advisers, Howard Wolfson, says of the decision: As the nation s leading independent and a pragmatic business leader Mike (Bloomberg) has supported candidates from both sides of the aisle.
This week in Philadelphia he will make a strong case that the clear choice in this election is Hillary Clinton.
This isn t necessarily a huge surprise, as Bloomberg has definitely gone after Trump on some of his more alarming policy proposals.
This is especially true of Trump s plan to ban Muslims from traveling across the U.S. border, and his ideas regarding building a wall along the southern border and forcing Mexico to pay for it, and the mass deportation plans.
Despite the lack of surprise, though, this is an important endorsement.
Bloomberg is a billionaire, just like Trump, and he is a high profile GOP politician.
This is definitely a signal to the sane Republicans that are left that they need to do the right thing and endorse and vote for Hillary Clinton.It s not about betraying one s party or one s principles.
It s about what is right for the nation and the world.Featured image via Roy Rochlin/Getty Images