Comedy Central s roasts of various celebrities are well known by this point, and it s just as well known is that the roasts almost never focus exclusively on the person being roasted.
This year s roast is all about Rob Lowe, and the roasters do go after him quite heartily and gleefully.
However, it seems that Ann Coulter is also inexplicably a roaster this year, and the other roasters decided to burn her about as bad as they did Rob Lowe.Coulter is a Trump fangirl.
She s also just about the most racist and hateful public figure in all of existence.
She takes all of Trump s bizarre rhetoric 700 steps farther than it needs to go, while calling him out for not going far enough.
These comedians don t really seem to like her all that much, and neither did the audience.
They actually booed her for using her appearance there to promote her most recent book, In Trump We Trust.
Oh, please.Variety did us all a favor and captured the following zingers delivered at Coulter s expense:Nikki Glaser: The only person you will ever make happy is the Mexican who digs your grave.
Peyton Manning: I m not the only athlete up here.
As you know, earlier this year, Ann Coulter won the Kentucky Derby.
Davidson: If you are here, Ann, who is scaring the crows away from our crops?
Lowe: After seeing your set tonight, we ve seen the first bombing you can t blame on a Muslim.
Jeff Ross: Ann is against gay marriage.
What is your thinking on that?
If I can t get a husband, they can t either?
Jewel: I do want to say as a feminist that I can t support everything that s been said tonight.
But as someone who hates Ann Coulter, I m delighted.
Rob Riggle: If Ann Coulter is here, someone must have said her name three times.
Beetlejuice!
Beetlejuice!
Beetlejuice!
And perhaps the harshest, from Jimmy Carr: Ann is one of the most repugnant, hateful, hatchet-face bitches alive.
It s not too late to change, Ann.
You could kill yourself.
Coulter herself tried to play comedian, too, and threw out this, ahem, gem, which was probably the only gem she uttered all night: I want to welcome everybody to the Ann Coulter roast with Rob Lowe.
That s about the only thing she s ever gotten even close to right, even if she did solidify the idea that this roast is all about her.
Everything she thinks is twisted, bigoted, false, and delusional.
As the old clich goes, even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
Coulter, however, is right considerably less frequently than that.These are just a few of the jokes various Rob Lowe roasters shot her way, despite the fact that she was likewise a roaster, but has no connection to Lowe.
Lowe explained her appearance by saying that they need all flavors at these roasts in order to make them work, and that s why she was there.Whatever the reason, though, Variety insinuates that her entire performance fell far more flat than anybody else s. Poor, poor Ann.
Our hearts bleed for her and how stupid she ll look on Labor Day, which is when this will air.Featured image by Christopher Polk/Getty Images