Much like Donald Trump himself, it s hard to tell what kinds of insane things might happen during an interview with the people who support the incompetent POTUS.
CNN s Alisyn Camerota learned this the hard way on Thursday morning when she interviewed a few Trump voters about how they thought he was doing after his several weeks in office.
The experience may have left a permanent scar.Despite having the failures, investigations and exposed lies, this focus group of Trump voters gave Trump an A grade all but 1 voter in the group of 6 had the balls to give Trump a B because he refused to give out the highest grade.
That voter, Billy Baer, said: It was like people were laughing in his face literally laughing in his face about the prospect of him being elected.
He got elected, and we don t know, as far as the votes and fraud and everything else.
My assumption is that he probably would have been elected by a higher number than what the results actually showed.
While giving a clearly failing and highly unpopular POTUS an A or B is puzzling in itself, the real shocking moment came when Camerota challenged the Trump supporters on Trump s claim that millions of people had voted illegally in the election.
This is where Baer insisted he saw busloads of people from out of state coming into New Hampshire to vote.
Camerota questioned this obviously bullsh*t claim and asked: When you say you ve seen it, do you mean dozens or do you mean 3 million?
There s a difference.
Baer then admitted he hadn t seen 3 million illegal voters, even though this has been the number Trump s been touting despite having no evidence.
Baer replied: Extrapolating, based on the number I ve seen with my own eyes, busloads of people coming in whether they re illegal, meaning they came into the country illegally, or they re illegal voters they came over from Massachusetts into New Hampshire.
When Camerota asked Baer just how he d seen busloads and busloads , another Trump supporter chimed in to deliver the final blow of insanity.
Josh Youssef jumped in and said, Who cares, though?
, solidifying that the truth and facts do not matter at all to anyone who supports Trump.
Camerota was visibly stunned and said: I care.
Just to be clear, you saw it with your own eyes, busloads and busloads of people coming from somewhere other than New Hampshire to vote.
You saw that?
Youssef tried to defend Trump and said: I ve seen cars coming in from out of state that are full, with out-of-state plates I live right across the street from the polling place in my ward.
And not surprisingly, Baer s claims also didn t hold up.
He eventually said: Yeah, I guess that I can t cite the busloads that I ve seen and where I ve seen them, but on television I ve seen it.
Well, we know that Trump also gets all of his facts from television the mostly false Fox News to be exact so this makes perfect sense.
You can watch this disastrous interview below:Trump voters give the president a grade after his first months in the White House https://t.co/KuQFSDlrCV New Day (@NewDay) March 30, 2017Featured image is a screenshot