On Wednesday, Rachel Maddow made a comparison between the overt racism of Donald Trump s current campaign and the polite racism of Rick Santorum s campaign in 2012.
During the segment, Maddow raises some interesting questions about Trump and the normalization of racism in the 2016 political cycle.Racist policies have been a major part of the GOP s platform since they adopted the southern strategy.
Since it is no longer considered polite to be openly racist, the GOP had to come up with a racist agenda that is coded in the language of economic policy.
On occasion, a Republican candidate slips up and the veil covering their racist attitudes falls away.Maddow points towards the time when Santorum infamously stated on the campaign trail that he doesn t want to make black people s lives better by giving them somebody else s money.
Santorum quickly tried to backpedal on the gaffe, saying that he actually said blah people.
Much like the rest of Santorum s political career, it was both very sad and hilarious.Things have changed since 2012.
With black uprisings taking place all across the United States in 2014 and 2015, a movement was born that demanded that people finally recognize that black lives matter.
Because the U.S. is extremely racist, that simple demand was meant with a huge backlash from ignorant and racist right-wingers.
The same thing can be said in regards to Muslims, Mexicans, and just about every other racial group in the U.S.
While racial minorities demand to be treated equally, the right fights harder and harder to maintain white supremacy.So with racial tensions running high and matters of racial justice becoming an ever more partisan subject, Trump entered the 2016 primary election fully exploiting that tension.
His rallies have nearly turned into all out race battles, his racist rhetoric is up front and he is unapologetic about that.
In the segment, Maddow points towards one of his recent statements involving the judge who ruled against him in a lawsuit over one of Trump s most horrendous scams, Trump University.While it is probably true that Trump is normalizing racist language, he is also exposing the racist foundations that modern GOP is built upon.
That s causing deep fractures to form among Republicans.
The GOP cannot continue being the party of racists, in a nation that is rapidly becoming more diverse.
So while the normalization of racist rhetoric is terrible it is important to keep in mind that we are witnessing the death throes of a dying political party.You can watch the segment below.
Featured image via video screenshot