As the majority of Americans are completely depressed and worried sick over what is going to happen to this country after President-elect Donald Trump is officially in charge, The View came through to perfectly point out just why Trump is such a concern.On Tuesday, co-host Whoopi Goldberg brought up a topic that most of us are still extremely upset about, especially right after Martin Luther King Day Trump s vicious attacks on civil rights leader and Democratic Congressman John Lewis.
Tearing Trump a new one for throwing a temper tantrum just because Lewis said he didn t consider Trump a legitimate president (face it, most of us don t), Goldberg reminded Trump that he himself has been raising questions and conspiracy theories about President Barack Obama s legitimacy for years.
Urging Trump to grow the hell up and get yourself right , she pointed out just how thin-skinned Trump is when she said: You can t do it for eight years and then be pissed off that someone does the same thing to you, comrade.
Look, that s what America is built on, man.
And if you re going to be the president you ve got to get yourself right, because people are going to be coming at you because now there are questions about your presidency.
Maybe the same kind of BS questions you might have had if you d been thinking, had you thought about this.
The women on The View also made sure to note that Lewis, the man that Trump accused of being all talk, talk, talk no action or results, had suffered a fractured skull while marching with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in Selma.
Meanwhile, Trump had dodged the draft and has no examples of ever being of service to others.
Clearly, we all know who the real bullsh*tter is here.Railing against Trump for his complete meltdown in the form of various Twitter attacks not only on Lewis, but on CIA director John Brennan and Alec Baldwin (and others), Goldberg said what most of us have been thinking the whole time: You ve got too much time on your hands, man.
You better be trying to figure out what to do!
Exactly.
You can watch the women of The View rip Trump apart in the two-part series below:Featured image via screenshots