Keith Olbermann doesn t mince words, and when it comes to Donald Trump, he doesn t just avoid mincing words, he lights into him.
Trump and his minions keep saying that the Muslim ban is necessary to protect us from terrorism.
A lawyer from the Department of Justice even made that claim in court and got promptly smacked down by the judge.
Olbermann took to his show, The Resistance, to flay Trump open again over the effects of his racist ban.First off, Olbermann says that Trump is aiding our enemies with the ban, and indeed, he is: The first, perhaps the only international organization of any kind to congratulate Trump on his Muslim ban in sheep s clothing was so-called Islamic State.
ISIS.
The terrorists.
It sent him no bouquets, it issued no press releases, it did not have to.
It has been celebrating him and this plan, which will almost certainly instigate the deaths of American citizens since the night of the election.
Trump is alienating Muslims, making people in America fear Muslims, and that makes Muslim-Americans ripe for radicalization.
It also pisses off Muslims elsewhere and makes them ripe for radicalization.
But Olbermann postulates that this might be what Trump wants: Since [the Muslim ban] is the greatest possible gift to ISIS for recruitment, for confirmation, for rationalization, for instigating terrorist acts, maybe here in America, it must either be that Trump does not understand what will almost inevitably follow, or that he does understand what will almost inevitably follow.
Why would an American want that?
Not an American president, why would any American deliberately do anything to give terrorists a rationalization to commit terrorism in America?
Well, Olbermann says if we look back to the Bush administration following Sept. 11, they used that as an excuse to attack Iraq, as well as to roll back privacy laws and other freedoms in the name of keeping the homeland safe.
Sowing fear to justify all of that, of course, was how Republicans kept their hold on the White House in 2004.After explaining all that, Olbermann paints a possible, and terrifying, motive for Trump instigating terrorist attacks.
Watch the whole episode below:Blaming a judge for a hypothetical terror attack, when he is doing the recruiting work for ISIS.
The threat is TRUMP pic.twitter.com/lsgcrtrglH Keith Olbermann (@KeithOlbermann) February 5, 2017Featured image via screen capture from embedded video.