If there s one person that you don t want to mess with, it s Amy Schumer.
She s a badass who will call you the f**k out no matter who you are.
So, when one young critic decided he would bash the comedian in a tweet, needless to say, Schumer had the last word.
In fact, the original tweet looks to have been deleted.However, the internet being what it is, the evidence remains.The young film critic took a photo with Schumer on the red carpet of the Critics Choice Awards.
However, instead of just being proud of that moment, because getting a photo with Schumer is an honor in and of itself, he decides to try to be funny on Twitter and tweets out: Spent the night with Amy Schumer.
Certainly not the first guy to write that.
Seeing this, and obviously not amused, Schumer tweeted back: I get it.
Cause I m a whore?
Glad I took a photo with you.
Hi to your dad.
When misogyny starts young pic.twitter.com/1pTNVdXILv Emma Gray (@emmaladyrose) January 18, 2016The young critic has since apologized because of the backlash that was thrown at him from all directions I truly apologize for the tweet I posted earlier.
I'm not a comedian and it wasn't funny.
@amyschumer LightsCameraJackson (@LCJReviews) January 18, 2016 but the greater point still remains that this young man thought he was being funny by bashing a woman.
This sort of humor is never thrown at men, and it is blatantly misogynistic.
And to expand of Schumer s remark of Hi to your dad, she is likely implying nice job raising a new generation of jerks.
This sort of humor from, mainly men, who think they re being funny going after women isn t anything new.
It s an age-old story that harkens back to the Bible when Eve was blamed for being tempted.
Men have always gotten a free pass when it comes to sexual promiscuity, and women are always shunned or made fun of for daring to show they are human beings too.
So while, sure, this kid apologized for his stupid joke, because he was likely forced to by to the power of social media, he still thought it was okay to say in the first place.Let s stop shaming women.
Let s stop teaching young men that it s okay to shame women.
Then this sort of thing will never happen in the first place, and there will be no need to apologize.Featured image: Twitter