Apparently, the arrogant 88-year-old Congressman John Conyers, who is being accused of sexual misconduct by several women, is not going to leave the halls of Congress on his own.
Yesterday, Black Caucus member, Congressman James Clyburn (D-SC) claimed that the women accusing Conyers of sexual misconduct were all white women or racists.
Today, Conyers black accuser is speaking out.More than a week after it was first reported that Rep. John Conyers, a Democrat from Detroit, settled a sexual harassment claim in 2015, the woman he settled with is speaking out.WATCH: "Can you tell me what you say John Conyers did when you were his employee?"
@savannahguthrie asks Rep. Conyers accuser Marion Brown pic.twitter.com/2jsszMStWj TODAY (@TODAYshow) November 30, 2017Brown s 2014 complaint, and a settlement she reached with Conyers in 2015, were first reported by BuzzFeed News last week.
The report did not identify Brown, who signed a non-disclosure agreement as part of the settlement that prohibited her from speaking about it.The report included Brown s accusation that Conyers had fired her after she rejected his sexual advances.
Since then, at least two other female former staffers have accused Conyers of sexual harassment.
Conyers denies the allegations.Lisa Bloom, the high-profile attorney representing Brown, issued a statement Sunday calling on Conyers and the congressional Office of Compliance to release her client from the non-disclosure agreement.Brown said Thursday that she decided to break the agreement and speak out to be a voice for other women.
I felt it was worth the risk to stand up for all the women in the workforce that are voiceless ordinary women like myself with extraordinary challenges, working in the workforce, that are dominated by men, she said.
Huffington PostWATCH: "Did you ever tell any of your superiors?"
@savannahguthrie asks Rep. Conyers accuser Marion Brown pic.twitter.com/EAsOYkU0Ry TODAY (@TODAYshow) November 30, 2017Before Conyer s accuser Marion Brown came out and courageously appeared on the Today Show, Nancy Pelosi stood firm in her belief that Conyers was innocent.
She even went as far as to call him an icon during her interview with Meet The Press host Chuck Todd:.
@NancyPelosi: Accused Congressman Conyers is an "icon" in our country.
#MTP pic.twitter.com/4QlKKJTIJP Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) November 26, 2017Now that Conyer s accuser has revealed herself to the public and is being represented by the high-profile, leftist lawyer, Lisa Bloom, Nancy has suddenly had a change of heart and is now calling for the resignation of Rep. John Conyers (D-MI).BREAKING: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi calls for resignation of Rep. John Conyers https://t.co/wXXKqJGQKV pic.twitter.com/D8cRNKAiNE WXYZ Detroit (@wxyzdetroit) November 30, 2017Speaker of the House Paul Ryan joined the chorus today and called for the resignation of Congressman Conyers..@SpeakerRyan on Congressman Conyers: "Yes, I think he should resign.
I think he should resign immediately."
pic.twitter.com/z7NIHwOc2X CSPAN (@cspan) November 30, 2017Meanwhile, Conyers attorney, Arnold Reed, is laughing at the idea that the 88-year-old congressman who has been accused by several women of sexual misconduct would resign.
Today, during his press conference in Detroit, Reed called out the idea that Nancy Pelosi would call for his client to resign while ignoring (white) Senator Al Franken (D-MN).
During his press conferencet today Reed told reporters that Nancy Pelosi won t tell Conyers what to do.
Reed then pulled the race card from the bottom of the deck, asking: What is the discernible difference between Al Franken and John Conyers?
Rep. Conyers' attorney on calls for resignation: "It is not up to Nancy Pelosi.
Nancy Pelosi did not elect [Conyers] and she sure as hell wont be the one to tell the congressman to leave" pic.twitter.com/fxaRpDRQmh NBC News (@NBCNews) November 30, 2017NBC Capitol Hill correspondent Kasie Hunt tweeted about Conyers belligerent lawyer:JOHN CONYERS' LAWYER says Nancy Pelosi won't tell him what to do: "What is the discernible difference between Al Franken and John Conyers?"
he says Kasie Hunt (@kasie) November 30, 2017Yesterday, Conyers arrogant and defiant lawyer tweeted that his client is not going to be forced out of office :Attorney: Conyers not going to be forced out of office https://t.co/Np2bGmUGdI via @detroitnews Arnold E. Reed (@ArnoldReedEsq) November 30, 2017