Experts are saying that Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz is being deceptive when he responded to allegations that he had extramarital affairs with five women, allegations originally published by the gossip magazine National Enquirer.
One of the women apparently is Donald Trump spokeswoman Katrina Pierson, and the other is Carly Fiorina deputy campaign manager Sarah Isgur Flores.
So Ted seems to have been quite busy, although the idea is quite gross to think about.Phil Houston developed a model to detect deception when he was employed by the Central Intelligence Agency.
He has conducted thousands of interrogations for the CIA and other federal agencies.
Houston said: Behaviorally, when the facts are the ally of an individual, he or she almost always tends to focus on the facts of the matter at hand.
In this case, if the key fact was that he had not had these affairs, Cruz would almost certainly have been much more strongly focused on the denial.
That is, he very likely would have made a point of explicitly stating something along the lines of, I did not have these affairs.
Yet at no point in either statement did Cruz say that.
He implied it by saying the allegations are false, and that they re lies, but behaviorally, such statements are not equivalent to saying he never had the affairs.
Even if we were to overlook that fact and consider his statements to be a denial, there is an overwhelmingly higher proportion of attack behavior compared to the effort expended at denial.
This type of lopsided attack-to-denial ratio is very consistent with what we have historically seen with deceptive people when allegations are levied against them.
Houston was referencing Cruz s two statements denying the allegations, the first of which he posted on his Facebook page: I want to be crystal clear: these attacks are garbage.
For Donald J. Trump to enlist his friends at the National Enquirer and his political henchmen to do his bidding shows you that there is no low Donald won t go.
These smears are completely false, they re offensive to Heidi and me, they re offensive to our daughters, and they re offensive to everyone Donald continues to personally attack.
Donald Trump s consistently disgraceful behavior is beneath the office we are seeking and we are not going to follow.
He subsequently spoke about the scandal (you can watch the video below).
Cruz said: The National Enquirer published a story.
It is a story that quoted one source on the record: Roger Stone, Donald Trump s chief political advisor.
Let me be clear, this National Enquirer story is garbage.
It is complete and utter lies.
It is a tabloid smear, and it is a smear that has come from Donald Trump and his henchmen.
It is attacking my family, and what is striking is Donald s henchman, Roger Stone, had for months been foreshadowing that this attack was coming.
It s not surprising that Donald Trump s tweet occurs the day before the attack comes out.
And I would note that Mr. Stone is a man who has 50 years of dirty tricks behind him.
He s a man for whom a term was coined for copulating with a rodent.
Well let me be clear: Donald Trump may be a rat, but I have no desire to copulate with him.
And this garbage does not belong in politics.
The National Enquirer has endorsed Donald Trump, has said he must be President.
And so Donald, when he s losing, when he s scared, when Republicans are uniting against him, decides to peddle sleaze and slime.
You know, Donald is fond of giving people nicknames.
With this pattern, he should not be surprised to see people calling him, Sleazy Donald.
Based on these two statements, Houston concluded: Given the lack of additional information upon which to conduct a more comprehensive behavioral analysis, this is nothing more than our initial opinion and assessment, and we will continue to follow this matter very closely.
At the same time, we cannot help but conclude at this point that it s not looking good for Sen. Cruz.
There are other factors as well: Cruz is a known liar.
In fact, he has lied repeatedly during his run for the Republican nomination and has a reputation as a liar throughout his political career.
At one point, it was his campaign that sent out mailers that confused voters into believing they had committed some type of violation because they hadn t voted in the previous election in order to scare them into voting for him.
It was also his campaign that purposely duped voters into believing that Ben Carson had dropped out of the race during the Iowa caucuses in order to steal Carson s votes.In his defense, it can be argued that it s hard to believe that five women, yes five not one, would want to sleep with the likes of Ted Cruz, whose policies are not only draconian, but who isn t exactly a looker either.However, If this expert is correct, then Cruz, who touts himself as a conservative family values man, will go down as one of the biggest GOP hypocrites in history and that s saying a lot because there have been quite a few GOP hypocrites.Watch video here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3YSCzik5uPM]Featured image via Gage Skidmore/Flickr