Since Obama was sworn in as President hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to America most of them Muslim.
We re also seeing thousands of people from all over the world cross our Southern border illegally.
With the virtual invasion via illegals and refugees, is Obama trying to give America to ISIS?
It is a question worth asking if you look at the facts: DHS has just announced that ISIS is infiltrating the Refugee Resettlement Program.
No shocker there.
And yet, not only does Obama refuse to shut it down, he s bringing more and more in.
Treasonous much?
He s also going after our guns and constitutional rights in an attempt to strip them from us just when we need them the most.
ISIS PLANS GLOBAL DOMINATION: A document has just surfaced which outlines how ISIS organizes its territory and controls it.
I am not surprised.
I would have expected nothing less from the Caliphate.
They are a conquering force after all, so it makes sense that they would be the ultimate, brutal community organizers.Before we get into that, the latest on ISIS is that Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Mansour is dead in Afghanistan.
He was mortally wounded in a shootout last Tuesday and succumbed to his wounds sometime within the next 48 hours.
If true, this is a death blow to the Taliban in Afghanistan by ISIS and is very bad news.
As horrific as the Taliban is, ISIS makes them look like amateurs.Experts say they can t figure out where ISIS is getting their funding.
Are you kidding me?
They are big business: drugs, oil and they are backed by various countries behind the scenes and other players in geopolitical manipulations.
ISIS will spread through Afghanistan like a malignant cancer.
Slaughter and terror will be widespread.
ISIS is very organized in their conquest for the Caliphate and they will rule the country with an iron fist and a Quran.I don t believe the Taliban when they say Mansour is still alive.
If he were alive, we would have seen him by now.
Already, slick propaganda is surfacing from ISIS of their executions of their enemies.
It is brutal and gory.
I have heard reports of them making the Taliban kneel on explosives and then blowing them up.
They also put mortars as necklaces around their necks and then detonate them.
The training camps they are setting up all over the place are terrifying and many are flocking to ISIS to join in the fight for the Caliphate.
They are the strong horse in the race for the Middle East.
ISIS is going from town to town, province to province and slaughtering people and conquering in their wake.
They rape women and children, execute infidels and crucify offenders.
They take slaves and wealth as they go.
It is very reminiscent of Genghis Kahn.
People flee in abject terror when they hear that ISIS is approaching.Neither Russia or the United States could take the Taliban out.
They live like goats in the mountains of Afghanistan.
But ISIS is making short order of them and fast.
The trick is to be more brutal and aggressive than your enemy and ISIS has that down to an art.
ISIS settled in among the population in Afghanistan and then activated.
That is exactly what they are doing in Europe.
Things are about to get very, very dicey out there.Now, with this unearthed document, we see how they have global plans.
ISIS is already throughout the Middle East and with the Hijrah migration, they are now planted in Europe.
Just as they did in Afghanistan, they initially plant themselves within a population before rising up in cells and sweeping the country.
They are beginning to do this in America too, thanks to Barack Obama s open borders and Refugee Resettlement Program.Read more: Noisy Room