CNN host Jake Tapper put Breitbart in their place on Friday after they attacked him on Twitter.The white nationalist-supported website that spews alternative facts on a daily basis dared to attack Tapper because they think they made him change his coverage of Donald Trump.After Trump s disastrously embarrassing press conference on Thursday, Tapper told Trump to start acting like a legitimate president and stop whining.
Everybody at home needs to ask themselves how would you react if that were your boss coming in and giving a speech to the employees, Tapper said.
How would you react if that was somebody in your family that you were trying to have a conversation with?
You would think this is very difficult to assess in a positive way.
The person is not dealing with the world in which we live.
He said things that weren t true President Trump, if you re watching, you legitimately won the presidency.
Now get to work, and stop whining about it.
Breitbart appears to think they forced Tapper to call Trump legitimate even though Tapper has never referred to Trump as illegitimate.When you make Jake Tapper drop the Russkies hacked the election meme.
#4DChess https://t.co/7EG12f8CkT Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) February 17, 2017But they clearly messed with the wrong news anchor because Tapper fired back and hit Breitbart where it hurts the most.
@BreitbartNews Such a good doggy.
Now go get your treat from Bannon.
Arf!
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) February 17, 2017Yep, Tapper literally mocked Breitbart for being Bannon s lapdogs.Tapper even nailed a Breitbart supporter by telling her in Russian to be quiet because the adults are talking.
@eplerjc @JuliaGulia809 Better yet .
.
Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) February 17, 2017Needless to say, Tapper is being hailed as a media hero today.
@jaketapper No Fucks Tapper is the hero 2017 needs.
John Epler (@eplerjc) February 17, 2017The moral of this story is don t mess with Jake Tapper.
You ll get burned into oblivion.Featured image via screenshot