Flint s Democrat Mayor Karen Weaver is throwing a hissy fit over Trump s unannounced visit to the broken, violent city of Flint, MI.
Mayor Weaver is currently embroiled in a lawsuit after former City Administrator Natasha Henderson blew the whistle on her for allegedly trying to steer money from a charity for local families into a campaign fund.
Henderson claims she was wrongfully fired for blowing the whistle on Hillary s loyal minion, the mayor of the city of Flint.
Donald Trump will be visiting the broken, violent city of Flint today, where he plans to visit a church and the Flint Water Treatment Plant.
But one of Hillary s biggest cheerleaders won t be throwing out the welcome mat Flint Mayor Karen Weaver says she s baffled by the visit, and didn t receive a call from Trump s campaign ahead of time.Does Trump need to get clearance from Hillary s de facto Flint campaign manager before he can visit a violent and broken city that s been destroyed for decades by Democrats?
I would think, if you are very concerned about Flint and the people, you would contact the mayor and want to have a conversation about what s going on so that puts a question mark in my mind that I wasn t even contacted or notified about something today about something tomorrow, says Weaver.Weaver is in Washington D.C. and will not be in Flint during Trump s visit.
I had not been notified by Donald Trump or his people finally, this afternoon, a call to my press person, but I did not know.
These plans were made without contacting me.
Her reaction when she was contacted by Trump s campaign?
That s kind of not the way it s supposed to go I wish that he had come when things were in more dire straits maybe before we had even received help when the debates were going on.
We were crying out for a long time.
The fact that Trump didn t rush to Flint, MI for a photo-op when Hillary and Bernie were making regular visits as part of their pandering for the Black vote effort in a city ignored for decades by Democrats, speaks volumes about Trump s serious nature.
Americans are getting to see firsthand how a successful businessman approaches serious issues vs. how a career politician promises to fix issues with no real plan to ever come back once the press packs it up and leaves these broken neighborhoods.
Trump s desire to create jobs for people who have been unemployed for decades is real and the Democrats biggest fear is that his message is resonating in these forgotten neighborhoods.