CAIR knows what it s doing in Tulsa, OK but as usual pretends it s no big deal.
We ve dealt with the CAIR, Michigan leader who s been on Twitter, along with others in the organization, bashing our military.
We took screen shots of the Tweets that are included in this article.
The organization is trying to taunt our veterans on a day when we should be saluting them.
If you live in the Tulsa, Oklahoma area, please go and protest this float.The Islamic hate group CAIR is taunting our veterans and military personnel with this latest stunt.
Yesterday, veterans gathered at the Richard L. Jones, Jr. Airport to protest the terror-tied float.
The group is asking parade goers to literally turn their backs on the float for the Council on American-Islamic Relations.The U.S. front group for a UAE-designated Islamic terrorist group will have a float in one of the largest Veterans Day parades in the country.The subversive organization known as the Council on American-Islamic Relations, or CAIR, continues to try to burnish its unsavory image and obscure knowledge of its true nature.Adam Soltani, executive director of CAIR Oklahoma, insists that his organization is pure as the driven snow: Any claim that CAIR is associated with the Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas, or any other terrorist organization is absolutely preposterous.
CAIR was founded in 1994 in Washington, D.C., as a national organization to be a civil rights advocate for American Muslims, to stand up for constitutional rights, for religious freedom, for pluralism, and for every right that we value as American citizens.
A Memorial Day Tweet From CAIR, Michigan Director And Retweeted by the San Francisco CAIR Director:Soltani s words are far from the truth.
The reality is that CAIR is an unindicted co-conspirator in a Hamas terror funding case so named by the Justice Department.
CAIR operatives have repeatedly refusedtodenounce Hamas and Hizballah as terrorist groups.
Several former CAIR officials have been convicted of various crimes related to jihad terror.
CAIR s cofounder and longtime Board chairman (Omar Ahmad), as well as its chief spokesman (Ibrahim Hooper), have made Islamic supremacist statements.
Its California chapter distributed a poster telling Muslims not to talk to the FBI.
CAIR has opposed every anti-terror measure that has ever been proposed or implemented.
According to a captured internal document entered into evidence in the largest terrorist funding trial in our nation s history, the Islamic Association of Palestine, which is the parent organization of Hamas-tied CAIR, was a Muslim Brotherhood entity, working toward eliminating and destroying Western civilization from within, and sabotaging its miserable house CAIR operatives attack and dismantle America s greatest freedoms through litigation jihad.
They smear and destroy the voices of freedom via their well-paid hacks in the media.
Over the past decades, they have expended untold amounts of money to buy influence among media and elected officials.Michigan Director of CAIR: A Muslim nation with ties to 9/11 (Qatar) made a major endowment to the Council on American-Islamic Relations.
The Saudis have funded them with at least $50 million.
Post-9/11, they worked furiously to defeat the Patriot Act, and they continue to undermine counter-terror programs here at home.Read more: Pam Geller