The Boston Globe will publish a satirical front page on Sunday, April 10, showing just how insane the news could get if Donald Trump is elected President of the United States.
The page is part of an effort by the paper s editorial department to get Republicans to break out of their stupor and to stop Trump on his path to the nomination.It is every much the nightmare scenario it sounds like:The banner headline on the fake page, dated a year from Sunday, reads: Deportations to begin, President Trump calls for tripling of ICE force; riots continue.
The page includes full, realistic articles about Trump s actions as president.The main story includes mentions of an Attorney General Chris Christie, and Fox News Megyn Kelly tweeting from a bar because she s been placed on a White House black list.Other stories on the fake front page include U.S. soldiers refuse orders to kill ISIS families and details such as new libel laws targeting absolute scum in the press.
Another story is about how Trump had offended the Chinese first lady by naming his new dog after her.Here is an image of the front page, see a PDF here.An editor s note on the page explains their goals: This is Donald Trump s America.
What you read on this page is what might happen if the GOP frontrunner can put his ideas into practice, his words into action.
Many Americans might find this vision appealing, but the Globe s editorial board finds it deeply troubling.
Also featured in the issue is an editorial warning America off Trump:The GOP must stop TrumpDONALD J. TRUMP S VISION for the future of our nation is as deeply disturbing as it is profoundly un-American.Trump has experienced a recent series of setbacks on the delegate front, as the party s establishment attempts to deny him the number of representatives he needs at the convention in order to be granted the nomination.
At the same time, much of the establishment is now backing the campaign of the far-right Senator Ted Cruz in a desperate attempt to blunt Trump s momentum.
The reality star recently suffered an embarrassing loss in Wisconsin s Republican primary, and brought on new staffers with experience fighting for delegates at the party convention, scheduled for this summer in Cleveland.Featured image via Boston Globe