What does Obama, the Democrat Party, the state-run media and faux conservatives in Congress all have in common with Hamas?
They all want to take down Trump TEL AVIV Palestinian terrorist organizations did not take kindly to Donald Trump s call for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country s representatives can figure out what is going on.
Responding to Trump s proposal, Ismail Radwan, a Hamas leader and spokesman in Gaza, told Breitbart Jerusalem: We do not estimate that the current U.S. administration, any administration, will implement these racist suggestions.
This is a pathetic attempt to attribute terror exclusively to Muslims.
Radwan, whose group s charter calls for the murder of Jews and the destruction of Israel, lectured Trump: Islam is a religion of peace, a religion which opposes bloodshed.
Radwan glossed over Hamas own long and sordid history of bloodshed in the name of Islam, including thousands of terrorist attacks that have killed hundreds of Israelis.
Hamas has been responsible for suicide bombings, shootings, and rocket attacks targeting Israeli neighborhoods.Abu al-Ayna al-Ansari, a senior Salafi jihadist in the Gaza Strip, also sounded off to Breitbart Jerusalem on Trump s remarks.Supporters might argue that Trump s shutdown could stop future terrorist attacks.
Ansari, however, claimed that, because of leaders like Trump, the American people are risking more terrorist attacks from our brothers, fighters of the Islamic State.
We Muslims have grown used to these types of statements, which prove that the U.S. under any president will continue to be hostile towards Muslims, added Ansari.The jihadist went on to claim that Trump s sentiments exposed the truth about American leaders.
They claim to stand for human rights, while in actuality they carry out the same policy as that of the infidel crusading West, which oppresses the Muslims.
Trump should know that a new generation of Muslims has risen, a generation that is capable of handling people like him and countries like the U.S., Ansari added.Speaking on ABC s Good Morning America on Tuesday, Trump clarified that under his proposal American Muslims can come and go as they please.Trump expressed his hopes that a shutdown will go quickly, as soon as our leaders figure out what the hell is going on.
If a person is a Muslim, goes overseas and comes back, they can come back.
They re a citizen.
That s different, Trump explained.
But we have to figure things out.
Speaking on CNN on Tuesday, Trump warned that the country risks more terrorist attacks if his plan for a temporary ban on Muslim immigration is not implemented.
You re going to have many more World Trade Centers if you don t solve it many, many more and probably beyond the World Trade Center, Trump told CNN s Chris Cuomo.Trump speculated that there are already terrorists inside the country.
They want our buildings to come down; they want our cities to be crushed.
They are living within our country.
And many of them want to come from outside our country.
In a statement released to reporters on Monday, Trump cited a poll from the Center for Security Policy showing that segments of the Muslim population hold anti-American views.According to Pew Research, among others, there is great hatred toward Americans by large segments of the Muslim population.
Most recently, a poll from the Center for Security Policy released data showing 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad and 51% of those polled agreed that Muslims in America should have the choice of being governed according to Shariah.
Trump urged Americans to better understand the ideology of radical Islam before allowing Muslims into the country.
Without looking at the various polling data, it is obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension.
Where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine.
Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life.
Via: Breitbart News