Donald Trump is a lot of things, but presidential is not one of them.
Kellyanne Conway is Trump s campaign manager, so it s her job to polish the turd that the Republican party nominated and make him something palatable to the majority of American voters.
Unfortunately for both Trump and Conway, even she doesn t believe that Trump is presidential, at least that s what a video dug up by CNN s Jake Tapper says.The subject was Trump s latest obsession, which is that the election is somehow rigged against him.
Tapper noted, on Sunday s State of the Union, that there s no evidence whatsoever of election rigging.
As proof, he pulled out a not-so-old video of Conway basically saying the same thing.
Back in April when you were working against Donald Trump, when you were working for Ted Cruz and advising his super PAC, you had some tough words for Mr. Trump when he was lashing out at the time against the system being rigged, Tapper told Conway before refreshing her memory with a video clip.
We hear from the Trump campaign, the rules change, it s not fair, Conway had said in April.
He can whine and complain all he wants that he didn t know the rules.
Conway, to her credit, didn t skip a beat and said, we love watching that clip together.
That was about what was happening on the weekends.
When Donald Trump would win the vote, he would basically win all the electoral votes in a state, and on the weekends, the Cruz campaign would go back and follow the rules and get back some of those delegates.
So no, it s not a pattern for him.
Source: Raw StoryThen, she once again tried deflecting from Trump s accusations that the election is rigged against him personally and said that the election is about the system being rigged against the little guy.
Here s the video:Of course, Trump s rigged election claims have never been about the little guy, unless Trump is trying to claim that as an alleged billionaire, born on 3rd base, he s a little guy.
The election is absolutely being rigged by the dishonest and distorted media pushing Crooked Hillary but also at many polling places SAD Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2016Featured image via video screen capture.