Republicans seriously need to pay attention in biology class.Because if they had, they would know that the reason women get pregnant in the first place is because of men.And that s why women need prenatal care to be covered by health insurance plans.But Republicans like Rep. John Shimkus think that men should not have to pay for prenatal care in their insurance plans, even though by doing exactly that they are protecting pregnant women and the fetuses they carry.During a committee hearing on Thursday, Shimkus openly whined about men having to pay for prenatal care and argued that insurance companies should only make women pay for it.Economist Austin Goolsbee expressed confusion over Shimkus objection and proceeded to explain to him how insurance works.
If you look at any insurance product, everyone pays in because there s a risk that a small number of people are going to have a claim, Goolsbee began.
So, there s a subsidy, if you want to call it that, from people who don t get in car accidents to people who do get in car accidents.
That s the nature of insurance.
Everyone is born, I think we can agree on that.
The prenatal care is good for society, that we are covering prenatal care, that women can have babies in a healthy way, and to object that men shouldn t have to pay for things that are women s problems, young people shouldn t pay in for things that are old people s problems.
Hopefully all the young people will be old people, eventually.
As I say, that s how insurance markets work.
I don t understand this objection.
Indeed, that s how Social Security works.
Each generation of workers basically subsidizes the retirement of workers who came before them.
This way, senior citizens can retire and live comfortably while a younger person gets a job.Republicans can also look at prenatal care another way.
If they are seriously going to force women to carry pregnancies to term, the least they can do is help make sure that the mother and fetus are healthy and getting the medical attention they need.The cost of prenatal care insurance would skyrocket if women were the only ones having to pay for it since the insurance pool would be smaller.MSNBC host Stephanie Ruhle, who has three children, also chimed in by informing Republicans that women don t impregnate themselves.
Congressman Shimkus, if you are watching, unlike Tom Price, I m not a doctor.
But I will talk science for a moment.
Though it is women who need that prenatal care, men are involved in the process that requires them to need prenatal care, FYI.
Here s the video via YouTube:Republicans should be ashamed of themselves for complaining so much about women s healthcare.
Their mothers, sisters, daughters, and wives must be embarrassed.Featured image via screenshot