Harvey Weinstein s wife, Georgina Chapman, has announced that she is leaving the movie mogul after a string of woman claimed that he had sexually harassed or assaulted her.
My heart breaks for all the women who have suffered tremendous pain because of these unforgivable actions.
I have chosen to leave my husband, she told People.
Caring for my young children is my first priority and I ask the media for privacy at this time.
To my wonderful husband #happyfathersday #weloveyou A post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Jun 18, 2017 at 7:49pm PDTAt the same time as Chapman made the announcement, Weinstein made a departure of his own to Europe, by private jet.
There he will undergo therapy for sex addiction and behavioral issues, TMZ reported.Weinstein also hopes that he will still be able to serve the Weinstein Company, from which he was fired by the board on Sunday, in some capacity.His legal team are in talks with the company, and according to an insider, he wants to come back with fresh, new ideas .
Chapman, 41, met Weinstein, 65, in 2003 and they married four years later, going on to have two children, India Pearl, seven, and Dashiell Max Robert, four.She is also the co-founder of high-end women s fashion line Marchesa and before the announcement of her split from Weinstein, sources said that she was struggling to save the brand from being tarnished by her husband s allegations.
But leaving him might present other problems for the beleaguered British designer.
Another day playing dress up on @projectrunwayallstars..,Channeling a little Ginger #sharonstone #casino #projectrunwayallstars #bighairA post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Aug 25, 2017 at 4:59pm PDTA source told People that she is terrified that the line, which is loved by many of the women who have starred in her husband s films, will founder without his help.
Glam squad .action!
#projectrunwayallstars #bighair #glammakeup #marchesaA post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Aug 24, 2017 at 5:18pm PDTThat s because he as one of the heaviest hitters in Hollywood has access to the A-list stars that can keep the brand in the public eye.Chapman posted this gorgeous picture of Nicole Kidman wearing her a dress from her fashion line: Wow the gorgeous @nicolekidman in the @hollywoodreporter!!!
#marchesa #hollywoodreporterA post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Jun 7, 2017 at 3:34pm PDTHollywood icon Bette Midler is seen wearing Marchesa here: Thank you thank you @bettemidler for looking absolutely divine in custom #marchesa at the opening night of @hellodollybway!!
#bettemidler #hellodollyA post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Apr 21, 2017 at 6:34pm PDTA TV fashion source said: Harvey is the one with all the friends.
It s going to be a tough time for her and Marchesa .
Shades of pink Thank you darling @sophiabush and @normancook for looking stunning in #marchesa at tonight's @sagawards!!!
#sags #sophiabush #kaleycuocoA post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Jan 29, 2017 at 7:58pm PSTA New York fashion publicist who did not want to be named told the Hollywood reporter: No star is ever going to want to wear the brand again.
Another gorgeous shot of The Duchess in #marchesanotte The look is available on @farfetch!!!
#duchessofcambridgeA post shared by Georgina Chapman (@georginachapmanmarchesa) on Apr 4, 2017 at 3:02pm PDTWeinstein is good friends with Vogue editor Anna Wintour and the two have co-hosted fashion and Democratic political fundraising events.Chapman s departure will likely come as a shock to Weinstein, who had boasted last week that his wife was standing by me 100 percent .He has also said she will be one of the people to kick my a** and help him become a better man.The couple was yesterday said to be holed up in a Los Angeles hotel together.The Weinstein controversy showed no signs of winding down on Tuesday, as several new actresses came forward to detail how Weinstein had assaulted them.Angelina Jolie said that in 1998, when she was just 23 and promoting her film Playing By Heart , Weinstein made unwanted advances on her in a hotel room.
Daily Mail