Those wacky conservatives are at it again with a new, insane attempt to invent an Obama scandal.
So what did Barack Barry Hussein Soetoro Obama Bin Laden do this time?
Did he allow someone else to hold his umbrella?
Order mustard on something?
Put his feet on his own desk?
No, what President Obama did this time was far more insidious he didn t wear his wedding ring during a public appearance, which apparently proves he s a gay Muslim homersexual who married a man (at least, according to our frenemies on the right wing).The American Mirror s Kyle Olson noticed that during Obama s visit to Laos, he appears to not be wearing his wedding ring.
Now, you re probably thinking so f*cking what?
I take mine off from time to time.
But this is apparently a big deal.
A really f*cking big deal, as far as Olson and his vapid readers are concerned.Noting that it s not the first time Obama has shed his wedding ring and that Michelle Obama was not with him on the trip, Olson put the information out there for his ridiculous fanbase so their imaginations could run wild:This perfectly innocent photograph of the President not wearing his ring resurrected long-dead conservative talking points like that his wedding ring is really a secret Muslim decoder ring that says Allah is the one true God in crazy Muslim-y inscriptions only conservatives can read (multiple language scholars have pointed out that the ring s design has no meaning in Arabic).Others saw this as proof that Michelle Obama is a really a man, their marriage is in shambles and teetering on the D-word, and Mr. Barry has multiple gay lovers (like all those old men he used to bang for cocaine, don tchaknow).
Others speculated that he was having a romp playing with Laotian ladyboys while he was down there.
Surely we can expect the ridiculous conspiracy theories surrounding Ringhazi to continue.
While you re busy laughing at the stupidity of the segment of our society with nothing better to do than invent insane conspiracy theories about our President, be sure to remember that these vapid numbskulls will be voting in November.
Make sure you re there, too.Featured image via screengrab