In another show of just how disturbing the Republican Party s base has become, an astonishing number of primary voters marching out of the polls in South Carolina proudly said they supported Trump s idea to ban Muslims from entering the United States.According to a CBS News exit poll conducted during the South Carolina primary, a staggering 75 percent of voters said they supported Trump s proposal to ban Muslims.
This is in line, but actually slightly up, from an earlier South Carolina poll that found Trump supporters overwhelming favored legalizing discrimination against Muslims.There s also 62/23 support among Trump voters for creating a national database of Muslims and 40/36 support for shutting down all the mosques in the United States, something no one else s voters back.
Only 44% of Trump voters think the practice of Islam should even be legal at all in the United States, to 33% who think it should be illegal.
To put all the views toward Muslims in context though, 32% of Trump voters continue to believe the policy of Japanese internment during World War II was a good one In the days after the San Bernardino terror attack, Trump demanded that America ban Muslims even American citizens currently abroad from entering the country.
He ordered a total and complete shutdown on Muslims indefinitely.
Or as he put it: Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in Jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life.
Certain political observers believed that Trump s proposal to ban Muslims even American citizens abroad from entering or re-entering the United States was so far beyond the pale that he would suffer in the polls because of it.
Jeb Bush even risked his own campaign to call Trump out on it.Donald Trump is unhinged.
His "policy" proposals are not serious.
Jeb Bush (@JebBush) December 7, 2015Unfortunately for common decency (and Jeb Bush), Trump s supporters loved the idea.
His polls actually went up.
Republicans have since only embraced Trump s bigoted ideas at ever scarier levels of enthusiasm.Given the hatred coming out of the election booths, it s no surprise to learn that Donald Trump is projected to win South Carolina by a massive margin.
If moderate Republicans are wondering how the GOP went so wrong, they might want to look at what the voters are actually saying: Trump represents discrimination, bigotry, and hatred.
And they absolutely adore him.Featured image via Darron Birgenheier/Flickr