Girls aren t the only gender who will suffer embarrassment, humiliation and even the prospect of sexual predators in their bathrooms and locker rooms.
Shame on American parents for not making more of a fuss about this horrendous decree by a dictator with only seven months left in his final term A Southwest Elementary School parent said he s keeping his three sons out of school until the Howell, MI Public Schools Board of Education explains why a girl is using the boys bathroom.Matt Stewart said his 9-year-old son informed him Friday that there was a girl in the bathroom and the girl was told to look at the wall while boys were told to stand closer to the urinals.
He said his son indicated the information came from a school staff member.
I have three children in Southwest Elementary School and they are being humiliated and intimidated, Stewart said Wednesday.
Our kids are absent from school until there s a policy in place that keeps them from being humiliated or intimidated.
The bottom line: A 9-year-old girl is in the boys bathroom with my son, the father said, adding there is no precaution to keep the girl from walking out of a stall and seeing a male classmate urinating.Messages to Southwest Principal Jennifer Goodwin and district Superintendent Erin MacGregor as well as public information officer Tom Gould were not returned late Wednesday.School board President Michael Yenshaw said the matter is not one that has reached the board at this time, and Vice President Stacy Pasini said she preferred to have no comment.
It does not pertain to an immediate threat to the public safety of the district, Yenshaw s written reply stated.
It may also involve FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act) issues, which limit the content of information that the district is permitted to release.FERPA is a federal law that protects the privacy of student education records.Stewart said he spoke with the school principal and MacGregor, both of who would not confirm if the third-grade female student is transgender due to privacy issues.Stewart sought an approved policy through the Freedom Of Information Act, but was told there is no districtwide policy in place on the issue of transgender bathroom use.
He said MacGregor took ownership for the final decision on this matter allowing students to use the bathroom of their choosing.
This was (decided) quietly, behind closed doors, Stewart said.The issue of transgender usage of bathrooms exploded nationally after the passage of House Bill 2 in North Carolina, which became law March 23.
It bans transgender people from using bathrooms that don t match the gender on their birth certificate.Via: Livingston Daily