On Tuesday morning, Republican front runner Donald Trump was supposed to go on several television appearances, but wimped out at the last minute and decided to do audio interviews instead.
The reason for this sudden change of heart?
He just didn t feel pretty enough.CNN Money reported that Trump was scheduled appear on NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox News, and MSNBC, but told all the networks that he was experiencing technical difficulties on his end and begged them to let him do the interview over the phone instead.
Most of the programs agreed to Trump s demands, but this response from CBS This Morning s executive producer Chris Licht proved that not everyone was buying it.TwitterSo far, three network sources (who wish to remain anonymous) said they felt Trump s so-called technical issues were an excuse and when you consider this following statement, it certainly looks like it.
According to someone who heard Trump refuse an on-camera interview, Trump needs to be a little more careful when he spews flat-out lies: He didn t like the shot.
But he didn t realize that his microphone was on for everyone to hear.
The source reported that Trump said, I don t like the way I look.
Just tell them there s technical issues.
Several hours later, CNN s Ashleigh Banfield called Trump out on air, making it perfectly and hilariously clear just why Trump was giving audio-only interviews earlier that day.
She explained to her guests: I want to run his sound byte.
It is on the phone because he cancelled all of his on-camera appearances.
He was heard by a technician saying, I don t like the way I look so tell them there is a technical issue, and he carried on his interviews by phone.
That s why we are hearing it by phone.
Can we seriously trust a presidential candidate whose self-esteem is just as back-and-forth as his positions on policies?
The fact that he has to modify his interviews just because he doesn t like the way he looks is a clear sign that he can t be a confident leader and focus on more important matters.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore