You would think that after President Barack Obama specifically warned Republican nominee Donald Trump not to attack his wife, Trump wouldn t want to test those waters.
Then again, when has Trump ever listened to the advice of anyone other than himself?On Friday during a rally in North Carolina, Trump tried to slam First Lady Michelle Obama by taking a line out of a 2007 campaign speech to smear Michelle, President Barack Obama and his opponent Hillary Clinton.
Trump tried to throw each of his biggest threats under the bus when he said:We have a bunch of babies running our country, a bunch of losers.
They are babies.
We have a president, all he wants to do is campaign.
His wife, all she wants to do is campaign.I see how much his wife likes Hillary, but wasn t she the one that started the statement: If you can t take care of your home, you can t take care of the White House or the country?
Trump was quoting a line from Michelle s 2007 speech when she was campaigning for her husband but he took it completely out of context.
Michelle had been talking about how she managed politics, two careers and raising two children.
This balancing act between family and work responsibilities is something that many Americans could relate to, which was why she said it.
Her words were:One of the things, the important aspects of this race, is role modeling what good families should look like.
And my view is that if you can t run your own house, you certainly can t run the White House.
Can t do it.
So, so we ve adjusted our schedules to make sure that our girls are first, so while he s traveling around, I do day trips.
They just know that I was at home to tuck them in at night, and it keeps them grounded, and, and children, the children in our country have to know that they come first.
And our girls do, and that s why we re doing this.
We re in this race for not just our children, but all of our children.
It was a beautiful speech, and it is simply disgusting that Trump would use it in such a negative context.
However, it s a sure sign that the business mogul is still bitter about the speech Michelle gave on Thursday, where Michelle accurately stated that Trump could not relate to the average American s struggles.
She said:Perhaps living life high up in a tower in a world of exclusive clubs, measuring success by wins and losses, the number of zeros in your bank account.
Perhaps you just develop a different set of values.
Maybe with so little exposure to people who are different than you, it becomes easy to take advantage of those who are down on their luck.
To him, most of America is them.
So basically, the only way Trump can attack Michelle is by making things up and twisting her words but he only makes himself look stupid in the end.
You can watch Trump try to attack the First Lady and fail below:Trump comments on FLOTUS as surrogate for Clinton: His wife, all she wants to do is campaign pic.twitter.com/9rp9SeKX1C ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) October 21, 2016Featured image via Scott Olson and Paul Morigi / Getty Images