Alleged President Donald Trump has been on the job for only 153 days and he held another ego-rally on Wednesday.
The crowd of adoring Trump fans cheered him on as he spoke down to them in a condescending manner.
The former reality show star who ran on a Drain the Swamp platform offered an explanation in Iowa for why he has one of the wealthiest cabinets in U.S. history.
The amateur president suggested that he hired billionaire private-equity investor Wilbur Ross to be his Commerce secretary because he isn t poor.
Trump said, I just don t want a poor person in a top economics role.
I love all people rich or poor but in those particular positions, I just don t want a poor person, he said at a rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Does that make sense?
If you insist, I ll do it but I like it better this way.
That led to cheers from his supporters.CNN reports:Trump named billionaire Wilbur Ross, who has made a fortune cobbling together dying companies, as his commerce secretary, and Todd Ricketts, part of the billionaire family that owns the Chicago Cubs, as deputy commerce secretary.The Cabinet also includes billionaire Betsy DeVos as his pick for education secretary and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is a former Goldman Sachs executive.
Somebody said, Why d you appoint a rich person to be in charge of the economy,' said Trump.
I said, Because that s the kind of thinking we want.'
They re representing the country.
They don t want the money.
They re representing the country.
They had to give up a lot to take these jobs.
They gave up a lot, he said.Trump noted that Ross and his chief economic adviser, Gary Cohn, a former Goldman Sachs president, were at the Iowa rally.
That s right, Trump brought the swamp to Iowa and his supporters cheered him on.
But, while on the campaign trail, Trump frequently bashed Goldman Sachs for having too much influence in politics and for paying Democratic rival Hillary Clinton for private speeches.Watch:Let s review history for a moment.It was in 1789 that George Washington, the first elected President of the U.S., tapped his former aide to be the first Secretary of the Treasury.
Alexander Hamilton grew up poor and he was an immigrant from the Caribbean island of Nevis his image is featured on our $10 bill.But, in Trump s world, Hamilton, who was an author of the Federalist Papers, would be too poor to be chosen for his administration.
Trump suggested to his crowd of supporters that only rich people are smart.
Those same supporters still see nothing wrong with the alleged billionaire not revealing his tax returns.According to Trump, billionaires are smart and the rest of us are dumb mother f*ckers.
Trump also raged about the media s coverage of his presidency during his rally.Well, we can prove that wealthy people aren t always smart or have compassion.
Citation: Donald J. Trump.Featured image via screen capture