Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist, commentator, and Hispanic woman, seems to despise her party s presidential candidate and for good reason.While appearing on CNN s The Situation Room, Navarro went on a tangent against Donald Trump after his recent comments regarding Trump University judge Gonzalo Cruiel.
Saying that Trump changes more positions than yoga, Navarro blasted the billionaire mogul for his racism and blatant disregard of the Constitution: I gotta tell you, I m a lawyer, I am a Hispanic it is offensive from a legal perspective, it is highly offensive as a Hispanic.
What he is doing is wagging the dog.
He is trying to distract from the fact he has got a problem with a case where there are allegations that his business is a scam and a fraud.
How dare he, how dare he question a judge s responsibility, a judge s adherence to the Constitution because he is of Mexican descent.
Then Navarro got personal, and cut Donald Trump to the bone with some cold hard facts about Mexicans and people of Hispanic descent: This man was born in eastern Chicago.
He s an American citizen.
He is just as American as Donald Trump.
Mexican Americans bleed just as any other American when they go to war.
They bled, just as any other American on 9/11.
They fight for America, they are America.
And what he is doing is disgusting, I am livid about it.
If this is his strategy to win over Hispanics, he s got a hell of a wake up call coming to him in November.
Only Donald Trump could piss off two influential Hispanic Republican women first Susana Martinez, and now Ana Navarro.
What a great strategy Trump has, as Navarro sarcastically pointed out.Currently, only 14 percent of Hispanics have a favorable rating of Donald Trump.
Among nonwhite women, which includes Hispanics and Latinas, the number is a record low 9 percent.And what is Trump doing to get their vote?
Absolutely nothing.
No wonder Navarro is pissed.
Republicans had a chance to reach out to Hispanic and Latino voters after their 2012 autopsy and they chose the guy who would do the exact opposite.Navarro is right, he is wagging the dog.
Trump honestly believes he can win with just the white male vote.
And Navarro is right again he is going to have one huge wake up call on election day.Watch Navarro s scathing take down of Trump:.
@ananavarro takes on @realDonaldTrump for his comments about judge in Trump University case https://t.co/NZgH3zkuxC https://t.co/m9IMVpxzy1 The Situation Room (@CNNSitRoom) June 3, 2016Featured image via screen capture