Donald Trump is desperately trying to find A-list entertainers to perform at his inauguration in January.
Trump s friend, famed opera singer Andrea Bocelli, backed out of performing at Trump s big event after a backlash ensued.
It s a hot mess.
The inauguration is only a few weeks away and team Trump can t find any top talent willing to perform.
He has the worst ratings historically of any president-elect.
On Thursday morning, former campaign manager and aide Kellyanne Conway was named as Donald Trump s new Counselor to the President.
Conway insists someone is booked to perform at the inauguration but she refused to say who it was during an interview on Good Morning America.
That s probably because there is no one confirmed for Trump s big event.ABC s David Muir asked Conway at the end of her interview about the news that Bocelli backed out, adding, Can you give us anyone on the list?
I won t, Conway said, but I can tell you that this is not the Academy Awards, it s the Inauguration for the people, the way that it s been the election for the people.
By not being the Academy Awards, we can only conclude that she s saying there is no A-list talent booked.Muir asked, Anyone lined up yet?
Uh, yes, replied Conway as she laughed nervously.After saying someone was booked, she then inadvertently admitted she doesn t have a clue about that:She continued and clarified, No one put me in charge of the entertainment.
I m a little bit too geeky for that.
Watch:16-year-old Jackie Evancho will sing the national anthem at the event.
Page Six is reporting that the Beach Boys may or may not be performing.
Trump s name is so toxic that the once-coveted gig for a performer is not so valuable to an entertainer under his presidency.
Let s just say that entertainers just aren t into Trump.As John Legend said, Creative people tend to reject bigotry and hate.
We tend to be more liberal-minded.
When we see somebody that s preaching division and hate and bigotry, it s unlikely he ll get a lot of creative people that want to be associated with him.
Past performers at inaugurations include Beyonc , Kelly Clarkson, Frank Sinatra, Barbra Streisand, and Aretha Franklin.Trump has tried to spin the lack of enthusiasm he s receiving from entertainers by saying he doesn t like over the top fancy events anyway.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images