Freedom is not a gift from government.
It is a gift from God.
President Donald J. Trump, May 4, 2017The Little Sisters correctly insist that sterilizations, abortifacient chemical birth control and artificial contraception are all immoral.
They are not only against the teaching of the scripture and Christian tradition but, as Catholics, the Sisters also maintain that they violate the Natural Moral Law.The Obama administration has asked the Court to compel these Little Sisters of the Poor to do indirectly what they refuse to do directly.
They asked the Court to force Catholic nuns to sin, to act against conscience, to pursue an immoral course of action.
The nuns were placed in a situation reminiscent of other times in the history of the Church when unjust rulers sought to compel the Church to bend the knee to Caesar.Here are what the Little Sisters Of The Poor are all about.
One look at these lovely women who have devoted their lives to God and to helping others in need, and you will see why President Trump made helping them live their faith without fear of persecution a priority:President Donald Trump signed a religious liberty executive order today that would protect Christian organizations like the Little Sisters of the Poor from being forced to pay for abortions.Today is the National Day of Prayer and the White House is celebrating the occasion with Christian leaders by scheduling the order signing today.
The order is a promise to respect religious rights and could pave the way for the Trump administration dropping the lawsuit the Obama administration was fighting against the Little Sisters and dozens of Christian entities not wanting to pay for abortions or abortion-causing drugs.The order indicates the Trump administration will provide regulatory relief for religious objectors to Obamacare s burdensome preventive services mandate, a position supported by the Supreme Court decision in Hobby Lobby.
Family Research Council President Tony Perkins was at the White House for the signing ceremony of an executive order protecting religious liberty.
He told LifeNews.com that the new order ensures the freedom of all Americans to believe and act in accordance with their beliefs.
The executive order makes clear that the administration will pursue policies that protect and vigorously promote religious liberty.
The President s executive order is a clear reflection of his campaign promise to protect the religious freedoms of Americans.
President Trump is taking a significant first step to defending religious liberty.
In working with the Trump administration, it is clear that they both recognize and understand the dangers of the anti-faith policies of the previous administration and are therefore committed to undoing those policies and restoring true religious freedom, he said.
The freedom to live out faith in all areas of society without government punishment or intimidation is what has made America great.
Life NewsWatch here: