If you need reassurance that someone is truly fighting for your best interests in Congress, look no further than Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).
She has been fighting for justice for the American people against a corrupt financial system since before she even took office.
She is a champion for the unheard American voice that all too often gets drowned out by corporate cash and lobbying efforts from big banks.Republicans, of course, fall in line behind these lobbyists and take what they can get.
They then turn around and vote in favor of those who crashed our economy rather than those who elected them into office the people.No greater example of this is than what just happened on the floor of the House of Representatives.
A vote was taken (HR766) to let fraudulent bankers off the hook and make it harder for them to be investigated and held accountable.
Take a guess how Republicans responded Warren did NOT hold back in her disgust of what was happening before our very eyes:It s not equal justice when a kid gets thrown in jail for stealing a car, while a CEO gets a huge raise when his company steals billions.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 3, 2016The American people remember who broke our economy & who made out like bandits and they didn t send us here to help the bandits.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 3, 2016If anyone in Congress thinks they can make it harder to crack down on corporate criminals, I promise you: The American people are watching.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 3, 2016Systematic fraud on Wall St helped spark the 2008 financial crisis but not a single Wall St executive went to jail.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 4, 2016You d think big banks would be happy with enforcement so tepid that they could just bake fines into the cost of doing business, right?
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 4, 2016Nope right now on the House floor, Wall St buddies are pushing a bill to make it tougher to prosecute bank fraud.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 4, 2016You read that right: The House is just minutes away from voting on a bill to make it tougher to investigate & prosecute bank fraud.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 4, 2016So she urged everyone to tell Congress to hold Wall Street accountable and vote NO :Tell Congress: They work for the American people not Wall Street banks that break the law.
Vote NO on HR 766.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 4, 2016And this is how House Republicans responded:Every single House Republican who came to work today just voted to make it harder to hold big banks accountable for fraud.
Shameful.
Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) February 4, 2016It is remarkably shameful, corrupt and disgusting.
Thank goodness for voices like Senator Warren and Senator Sanders for being in the Senate to call these corrupt politicians out and shine a huge spotlight on where Republican loyalties truly are.
To know we live in a nation where people of color are locked up for minor offenses or even killed where they stand, but these corrupt bankers are allowed to destroy our economy as well as people s lives and not be held accountable is beyond shameful, it s reprehensible.
Thank you for fighting for us, Senator Warren.
Thank you.Video/Featured image: YouTube