Russia is testing how far Donald Trump will let them go and they are going frighteningly far.The Russian government has been cheering ever since they helped get their puppet in the White House.Trump has signaled that he may pull the United States out of NATO, which would weaken Europe and leave the continent vulnerable to a Russian invasion.
Lithuania recently warned that the Russian military is preparing for such an invasion and that the military drill is the largest ever recorded near the borders of the Baltic states.Russia has also been launching cyber attacks and spreading propaganda designed to sway elections so that they can get weak leaders in office around the world.
And so far, their strategy is working.Putin has Trump by the balls and he may also have ears in the White House Situation Room, according to American spies who are refusing to provide intelligence to Trump out of fear that Putin would learn about the same information.And now Russia appears to be testing our military resolve as well.On Saturday, Russian fighter jets flew by a United States Navy Destroyer on the Black Sea at a threatening altitude and speed and refused to communicate when queried about the flyovers.
The same pattern occurred over several hours.
USS Porter queried all aircraft and received no response, Captain Danny Hernandez said according to Reuters.
Such incidents are concerning because they can result in accident or miscalculation.
The incidents involving the Su-24 were considered to be unsafe and unprofessional by the commanding officer of the Porter because of their high speed and low altitude, while the IL-38 flew at an unusually low altitude, Hernandez said.Another U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the closest incident that day involved the lone SU-24, which came within 200 yards of the Porter at an altitude of 300 feet (91 meters).Furthermore, Russia is also testing how close they can sail spy vessels to our shorelines.Fox News reported on Tuesday that a Russian spy ship was spotted 70 miles off the Delaware coast and it is unknown where the ship is heading.And if that isn t enough to make you worry about Trump s connections to Russia, the New York Times reports that Russia has deployed ground-based cruise missiles in violation of the treaty that ended the Cold War.
The Obama administration protested the move when the missiles were being tested, but Putin waited till Trump took over the White House to actually deploy them.These are all serious warning signs that Russia is poised to launch a war, yet Trump is doing nothing but defending and kissing up to Putin.
Russia is literally testing our defenses and getting more aggressive.
Prior to Trump, every other modern president has been strong against Russian aggression.
But now Russia knows that we have an inept weak leader in the White House who is incapable of standing up to Putin.We can no longer afford to continue letting Congress ignore Trump s relationship with Putin and Russia.
Investigations must occur and they need to occur right now.
Russia is only getting more aggressive and we need to put them in check and reassure Europe before it is too late.Featured image via screenshot