Eric Trump has a new haircut and that haircut looks to be an outrageously offensive political statement.Moving away from the slicked back caricature of a Wall Street sleazeball, Eric landed on a hairstyle that is, at this moment, mostly popular with a collection of up-and-coming neo-Nazis.
As the Washington Post described it last year in a article titled Does this haircut make me look like a Nazi?
, the style looks as follows:It is short on the sides and long on the top.
It is clean and tidy, with a military sheen.
It s been popular among young people for several years.
But now this haircut is making us ask ourselves, with seriousness that seems unthinkable in 2016: hipster or Nazi?Thanks to high profile Nazis like Richard Spencer, the answer in 2017 is: Nazi.The look, once popular with hipsters, is now decidedly one meant to symbolize an alt-right ideology.
In fact, the cut was co-opted by Nazis because it had connections to Hitler.
The style was a modern take on one made popular by the Hitler Youth in Nazi Germany.
You re probably familiar with it:(Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)Now, it s obvious that not everyone with that particular haircut is associated with white supremacy.
It s a haircut.
But within white supremacy circles, the haircut is used to signal to other members that the wearer is part of the team.
In the same way a particular piece of clothing or hand gesture can identify you as a member of a group, the haircut has become the calling card of many prominent neo-Nazis.Here s Spencer today still with the haircut along with his buddy wearing a slightly shorter variation of the same haircut:Nathan Damigo!
pic.twitter.com/YNr4X8YFD4 Richard ?
Spencer (@RichardBSpencer) June 25, 2017And now Eric Trump has it, too:Eric Trump has a fascist haircut.This cannot possibly be unintentional.
pic.twitter.com/9mqUbwENqQ Ali Gharib (@Ali_Gharib) June 25, 2017Is it intentional?
You d be forgiven for thinking so.
Eric and his brother Donald Jr. s behaviors since the election are only fueling the controversy.
Since their father s win, the family has been growing increasingly close with the alt-right, a group that breeds neo-Nazis.
Donald Jr, in particular, has globbed onto the group, retweeting articles and figureheads of the alt-right movement.
Now Eric is styling himself, physically, after them.That s a lot of smoke and the question we need to ask ourselves now is, Where s the fire?
Featured image via Fox News