We all know Trump s paranoia over ISIS is making him do really annoying things, like ban travelers from countries that have never sent terrorism to us while ignoring countries that have.
During his campaign, he also stupidly called on Bill Gates to close up the Internet, because the Internet is one of ISIS primary recruiting tools.
Yet, just like the rest of the right, he s completely ignoring a far more immediate terrorist threat, and it s growing much faster than ISIS.According to a new study from George Washington University, white nationalist groups (including Neo-Nazis, the KKK, skinheads and more) seem to be working harder and having far more success recruiting people online than ISIS.
Over the last four years, the number of people claiming allegiance to these groups grew more than 600 percent from about 3,500 people in 2012 to over 25,000 in 2016.
ISIS worked hard, but these white nationalist types are much better at creating new terrorists.Image via George Washington UniversityThey re outperforming ISIS in most metrics now, including follower counts and number of tweets.
ISIS online activity has dropped dramatically since 2014, due in part to social media networks rooting out and suspending accounts.
In that same time frame though, as shown above, white nationalist groups have grown considerably, and we hear silence from everyone.And where s Trump on this?
We have to close up the Internet to stop the spread of terrorism, don t we?He s focusing on Islamic terrorism and alleged criminal activity among those he believes are undocumented immigrants.
He s totally ignoring a threat that the FBI (and other law enforcement agencies) has been saying is a far more immediate danger.
These groups surged following President Obama s election win, but aren t acknowledged as terrorists.In fact, whenever an attacker or potential attacker (like, oh, say, Wayde Lynn Kurt who pledged to assassinate Obama; or Dylann Roof, who killed 9 people in a black church in South Carolina) is white, even our media is likely to say they were a lone wolf, or something of that nature.
Yet they re quick to jump on any attacker who shouts, Allahu Akbar, or proclaims allegiance to ISIS, as proof that terrorism is here.Worse, the report says that while increasing worry over ISIS is understandable, white nationalistic groups are able to watch and learn from ISIS tactics both on and offline.
So while we focus too heavily on Islamic terrorism, to the point of trying to keep even green card holders from seven countries out of the U.S., these groups watch Muslim radicalization on and offline, and adapt those techniques to suit their own movements.Trump s ascendancy to the presidency has only further galvanized these groups.
His protectionist rhetoric and overt racism is exactly what these people want to hear.
For instance, David Duke, the ex-KKK grand wizard, hailed his election, and also hailed his Muslim ban.Kevin MacDonald, another white nationalist, applauded Trump s plans to crack down on undocumented immigration, and for just generally saying what these people have been thinking forever.And we still sweep this stuff under the rug as people acting alone.
They appear to act alone because these groups aren t nearly as centralized as ISIS.
Also white nationalist groups don t generally claim responsibility for attacks the way ISIS does.
But the movement is growing, growing quickly, and is far stronger on our home soil than ISIS, or any Islamic terrorism, is.Trump and his administration will continue to ignore this, and even feed it, putting us in grave peril.Featured image by Andrew Harrer via Getty Images