Donald Trump will be seriously seething after he sees what GOP strategist Liz Mair called him on CNN.As we all know, the Republican nominee is incapable of keeping his big mouth shut.
He always has to whine about something or someone and it hasn t been helping him gain a whole lot of support.For awhile now, Republicans and the media were being pushed around by Trump, but that has now changed as he has had a complete meltdown in recent days in addition to all the things he has said and done since last June when he began campaigning for the nomination.Republican strategist Liz Mair is definitely not a fan of Trump and she is sickened by the fact that Republican leadership didn t have the balls to intervene and stop Trump s rise when they had a chance to say something that could have made a difference.
Now the entire party is in jeopardy of imploding.Indeed, Trump s message is the poison that is delivering the final death blow to a once proud party and Mair was only too happy to admit it during an interview with Anderson Cooper on CNN on Wednesday night.
His message is being a loudmouthed d*ck, basically.
And going out there and offending people and then engaging in an airing of grievances.
That s what he does.
He doesn t have another message.
He doesn t have anything else that he wants to convey.
The Republican Party has a message but it s not his message and he has no interest in carrying it.
And quite frankly, what I think we re gonna continue to see throughout this campaign is, we re gonna continue to see the Republican nominee basically acting as if he s on a suicide mission and aiming to take the whole rest of the party down with him.
Here s the video via YouTube.Mair is absolutely spot on.
The only critique here is that the Republican Party s message has been moving in Trump s extremist, bigoted direction for a long time now.
Trump is merely taking it to it s final form and all of a sudden Republicans are acting horrified about it.
But not so horrified that they aren t still willing to support him.
And that s really the key here.
Republicans can condemn his comments all they want.
It doesn t mean a damn thing if they still support him as their nominee.
Republicans created the hateful atmosphere that allowed Trump to rise in the first place.
Their only redemption is to make sure he loses in November and just admit they were wrong and that they are going to seriously change their party this time around.
And that means they have to stop pandering to the conservative base that desperately wants Trump to win and start transforming into a more inclusive party.Featured Image: Gustavo Caballero/Getty