It seems like Ted Cruz has permanently messed up his relationship with New Yorkers after his offensive New York values comments went viral.
One person who definitely isn t forgiving Cruz anytime soon is Rep. Peter King (R-NY), who hasn t yet endorsed any of the candidates running for president, but has made it perfectly clear who he won t be rooting for.King went on Fox Business Network on Thursday afternoon with nothing but criticism for the GOP s current candidates.
In speaking about Trump, the outspoken politician said that while he appreciated Trump s support on past issues such as Muslim radicalization, he wasn t fond of the way Trump attacked John McCain, or for the way the business mogul accused President George W. Bush of lying about the Iraq War.
All of this, however, couldn t hold a flame to how much King hates Ted Cruz with every fiber of his being.
King told Fox: With Donald Trump, I ve had some real issues with him.
On the other hand, in no way am I comparing him to Ted Cruz.
Ted Cruz anyone in New York who even thinks of voting for Ted Cruz is a nut!
Host Trish Regan asked King what he would do if Cruz was selected as the GOP s nominee, and his answer didn t disappoint.
King said: I tell you, I don t know I ll get some cyanide.
I don t know what I ll do.
I mean, I ll just you know, not gonna tell you.
This of course, was not a reply that anyone could have expected.
Stunned, Regan could only ask King, Will you vote for him?
King fortunately gave a more diplomatic response and said: Listen, put it this way: I will endorse the nominee of the party.
But it wouldn t be the most, you know, vociferous support.
You can watch the interview below:Interestingly enough, this isn t the first time King has threatened to do something drastic when it came to a Cruz nomination.
About a year ago, King entertained other ways he could kill himself if Cruz got closer to the White House.By the way, the Fox interview was just part of a long day of Cruz-bashing for King.
Earlier that day, King made an appearance on The Joe Piscopo Show on AM 970 THE ANSWER and got the chance to warm up before his interview with Fox.
Criticizing Cruz for his disrespectful comments about New York, King said: Let me say something about the New York primary.
Any New Yorker who even thinks of voting for Ted Cruz should have their head examined.
Really, here s a guy who refused to sign onto the 9/11 health care act for the cops and fireman.
Here s a guy who talks about New York values.
We re tough, and to have some guy like Ted Cruz with cowboy boots walk around criticizing us.
Listen, I hope he gets the cold shoulder and other things from every New Yorker.
Send him back where he belongs.
He s a phony.
Featured image via Getty Images / Scott Olson