President Obama let loose on Donald Trump, describing the Republican presidential nominee as simply unfit to serve as President of the United States.In a press conference at the White House alongside the Prime Minister of Singapore, Obama as asked about Trump s attack on the family of deceased Army Captain Humayun Khan.
"The Republican nominee is unfit to serve as president," President Obama says https://t.co/wjCjJOvbM5 https://t.co/fb5yN5gmpq The Situation Room (@CNNSitRoom) August 2, 2016President Obama said: The Republican nominee is unfit to serve as President.
I said so last week and he keeps on proving it.
The notion that he would attack a gold star family that had made such extraordinary sacrifices on behalf of our country.
The fact that he doesn t appear to have basic knowledge around critical issues, in Europe, the Middle East, in Asia, means that he s woefully unprepared to do this job.
Obama s comments come as Trump has piled one screw-up on top of another, from attacking the Khan family, erroneously stating that Russia never invaded Crimea, going after local fire marshals, and calling Hillary Clinton the devil.
On Tuesday morning Trump even made light of Purple Heart winners as a supporter gave him a replica and Trump laughed about how easy it was to get one.
The incident occurred as a New York Times report examined Trump s claims of how he avoided serving in the Vietnam War and found that he has made multiple contradictory excuses over the years for how he stayed out of the conflict.His campaign is also in trouble.
Trump recently fired two senior staffers, including the man who put together the B-list celebrities who appeared at the Republican Convention.By contrast, Hillary Clinton has seen an uptick in her polling after the convention.
CNN recorded the biggest post-convention bounce they ve polled since 2000, with the new CNN/ORC poll showing her 9% ahead of him, 52% to 43%.
NBC found a similar result.
The latest NBC/SurveyMonkey poll shows Clinton ahead 50% to 42%.Featured image via Twitter