How quickly the Democrats and their allies in the media forget, that when the bear is poked, he fights back.
Donald Trump has never been shy about punching back when he s being unfairly attacked, and Democrat Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) is no exception.
When she came after President Trump for allegations made by women for alleged sexual misconduct by then candidate-Trump, suggesting he should resign, Trump reminded everyone of how Gillibrand came to Trump, the former billionaire NYC business tycoon, begging him for campaign contributions.Here is Gillibrand s tweet calling for President Trump to either resign or threatening that Congress should investigate decades-old unfounded claims of sexual misconduct:President Trump should resign.
But, of course, he won't hold himself accountable.
Therefore, Congress should investigate the multiple sexual harassment and assault allegations against him.
Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) December 11, 2017Donald Trump responded: Lightweight Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a total flunky for Chuck Schumer and someone who would come to my office begging for campaign contributions not so long ago (and would do anything for them), is now in the ring fighting against Trump.
Very disloyal to Bill & Crooked-USED!
Lightweight Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a total flunky for Chuck Schumer and someone who would come to my office begging for campaign contributions not so long ago (and would do anything for them), is now in the ring fighting against Trump.
Very disloyal to Bill & Crooked-USED!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2017Fake Indian Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MS) took to Twitter in an attempt to shame President Trump.
Here is the tweet by the female Senator who is more commonly known as Pocahontas :Are you really trying to bully, intimidate and slut-shame @SenGillibrand?
Do you know who you're picking a fight with?
Good luck with that, @realDonaldTrump.
Nevertheless, #shepersisted.
https://t.co/mYJtBZfxiu Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) December 12, 2017Clearly Senator s Warren and Gillibrand never saw Trump attacking Mitt Romney during the campaign, otherwise, they surely would have tweeted about Trump slut-shaming him right?Watch:Donald Trump on Mitt Romney: "He was begging for my endorsement.
I could have said, 'Mitt, drop to your knees.'
He would have dropped to his knees.
"Was Trump sexually harassing/slut shaming Romney?No, this type of language is a part of Trump's vernacular.
pic.twitter.com/DwwOYCGljJ Ryan Saavedra (@RealSaavedra) December 12, 2017When Trump attacked Romney during the campaign, the Business Insider reported about the incident:GOP frontrunner Donald Trump responded to Mitt Romney s broadside on Thursday by saying that the former Republican presidential candidate had begged for his endorsement.
He was begging for my endorsement, Trump said at a rally later in Portland, Maine.
I could ve said, Mitt, drop to your knees.
He was begging me, Trump said.Trump was referring to the 2012 race for president in which Romney, the GOP nominee that year, sought Trump s endorsement.But if they were friendly four years ago, that relationship has clearly deteriorated.Earlier Thursday, Romney gave a speech in which he railed against Trump, whom he called a fraud, con man, phony, and fake, among other things.
His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University, Romney jabbed.
He s playing the American public for suckers.
He gets a free ride to the White House, and all we get is a lousy hat.
Throughout Trump s subsequent speech in Maine, the real-estate developer repeatedly and extensively lashed back out at Romney.
Mitt is a failed candidate he failed badly, Trump said.
That is a race that should have been won.
He repeatedly called Romney a choke artist throughout the speech, an insult he s used against Marco Rubio, a top Trump rival for the 2016 nomination.
He s a choke artist, I started hitting him so hard, Trump said.
We can t take another loss.
He choked, he choked like nobody I ve ever seen except for Rubio, he continued.At other points in his speech, Trump called Romney a disaster candidate in 2012.
The billionaire businessman then mentioned a fundraiser he held for Romney that ruined his carpet.
Trump said Romney did not compensate him for the damages Senator Gillibrand was clearly not above cozying up to sexual predators for contributions or for leveraging their political clout.
This Twitter user posted a picture of Gillibrand with Harvey Weinstein, the most notorious sexual predator in Hollywood:Senator Gillibrand is also a close friend of Harvey Weinstein.
So much for being a strong feminist ally.
pic.twitter.com/eXNO0iZSBx DEPLORABLE MEDIA (@correctthemedia) December 12, 2017And here s Gillibrand posing with former President Bill Clinton the accused rapist and sexual assaulter, who was impeached for lying about having sex under the Oval Office desk with a 19-year old intern: