Marco Rubio was looming large in New Hampshire, but Chris Christie made Marco Rubio look very small on Saturday night.In a span of only a few minutes, Christie knocked Rubio off his game so badly that he ended up repeating the same line on multiple occasions even after the New Jersey governor accused him of being scripted.And it all started when Christie absolutely shredded Rubio s lack of leadership experience.
You have not be involved in a consequential decision where you had to be held accountable, Christie said.
You just simply haven t. And the fact is the fact when you talk about the Hezbollah Sanctions Act that you list as one of your accomplishments you just did, you weren t even there to vote for it.
That s not leadership, that s truancy.
Indeed, Rubio has been roundly criticized for not doing his job.According to Gov Track, Rubio has missed 14.1 percent of votes since 2011, and that percentage skyrocketed last year.
Currently, he has missed up to 88 percent of votes in the Senate because he would rather be out campaigning.
And that disqualifies Rubio from being president, Christie says.
The fact is it does matter when you have to make decisions and be held accountable for them.
It does matter when the challenges don t come on a list of a piece of paper of what to vote yes or no every day, but when the problems come in from the people that you serve.I like Marco Rubio, and he s a smart person and a good guy, but he simply does not have the experience to be president of the United States and make these decisions.
Rubio responded by bringing up Christie s own lack of leadership during natural disasters and then he used a line that would get him stuck like a broken record for the next several minutes.
Let s dispel once and for all with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn t know what he s doing.
He knows exactly what he s doing.
Barack Obama is undertaking an effort to change this country, to make America more like the rest of the world.
Christie responded by accusing Rubio of memorizing a 25-second speech that his advisers gave him, and Rubio only helped Christie by repeating it again and again.
Let s dispel with this fiction that Barack Obama doesn t know what he s doing, Rubio said later on.
He knows exactly what he s doing.
He is trying to change this country.
And again Here s the bottom line.
This notion that Barack Obama doesn t know what he s doing is just not true.
He knows exactly what he s doing.
Here s the video via YouTube:In the end, Rubio looked a like a robot who was pre-programmed with key phrases prior to the debate but went haywire upon being challenged.This was not a good performance by Rubio, especially since he had been rising in the New Hampshire polls.
But after the beating he took from Christie on Saturday night, Rubio can probably kiss his presidential aspirations goodbye.Featured Image: NBC Latino