Wow!
This first-hand assessment of Bill clinton and then Hillary is a complete scorcher.
Dolly Kyle holds nothing back when describing this grifter couple that will do anything for money and political power.
What a great look inside the Clinton world of lies and manipulation!Dolly Kyle met Bill Clinton on a golf course in Hot Springs, Arkansas in the summer of 1959 when she was 11 years old and he was 12.A thunderbolt struck, so power and intense, it was love at first sight that lasted 32 years through all his Arkansas gubernatorial years and right up until Billy as she calls him was on the threshold of the White House.
Dolly dated Bill all the way through Hot Springs High School together and they were close when he went off to law school at Yale.In 1974, he told her of this woman he had moved in with at Yale.
It was simply a decent place to live, a roof over his and she would never be an issue between them, he intimated.
The now 60-something Dolly didn t realize at the time that Hillary s role was financial provider, a role that started at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut.
Hillary s role of providing financial security for Billy was part of her motivation for the series of financial crimes (yes, crimes) that she committed over the decades .
Hillary was upholding her part of the deal to get Billy elected president, after which it would be her turn to be the first woman in the Oval Office , lawyer and author Dolly Kyle writes in her bombshell book Hillary, The Other Woman, published by WND Books.
Billy and Hillary Clinton continue to be lying, cheating, manipulative, scratching, clawing, ruthlessly aggressive, insatiably ambitious politicians who are giving public service a bad name and nothing about them has changed in the past forty-plus years, except that they have deluded more and more people .
The Clintons and their misled supporters have rewritten history to suit their political agenda, which is to get votes to get power to get money to get more power to get more money .
The Clintons vicious cycle of intertwining greed and power addictions will have no limit, unless someone stands up and announces, The emperor has no clothes!
Here am I , writes Dolly.
Ideology, integrity, and love of country were never involved in the Billary quest for the White House.
It was always a codependent, co-conspiratorial grab for money and power and more money and more power .
Unfortunately for them and for the United States of America, there is never enough to satisfy addicts .Dolly watched Bill Clinton grow up in Arkansas.
She witnessed Hillary bringing her carpetbag to Arkansas.
I know what really happened .
She heard it firsthand.
The Man from Hope , only lived in Hope, Arkansas, until the age of seven when he moved to Hot Springs.
The segregated climate in the South festered an attitude towards blacks and allowed Clinton to use the phrase G**damn n****r, which Dolly heard him frequently say.
Clinton first confessed his desire to be president to Dolly back in high school and began chasing it when he was an Arkansas delegate to Boys Nation in the summer of 1963 that took him to the White House and a photo-op with President John F Kennedy in the Rose Garden.
Hillary jumped into that dream by defining herself as financial provider, so Billy told Dolly.
Her support allowed him to pursue his addictions to politics, power and sex .
Bill s mother had supported the family financially while his stepfather drank.
Now it was Hillary supporting him and he introduced Dolly to the woman from Yale on the evening of May 28, 1974 at the airport in Little Rock.
It was election night and Senator William Fulbright was running for re-election.
He had been Clinton s champion, gave him his first Senate job while Bill attended Georgetown University; introduced him to powerful people in Washington; supported him for the Rhodes Scholarship he won; a teaching job at Arkansas Law School and his endorsement as well as intros to financial backers for Bill s first congressional campaign that he eventually lost.
Bill s plane landed and he was first to de-board followed by a dowdy-looking woman who appeared to be middle-aged .
Bill greeted his lover Dolly formally with an extended hand while she checked out this mystery woman accompanying him.
I couldn t imagine why Billy would haul such a person in the plane with him in public.
She was wearing a misshapen, brown, dress-like thing that must have been intended to hide her lumpy body.
The garment was long, but stopped too soon to hide her fat ankles and her thick calves covered with black hair .
Thick brown sandals did nothing to conceal her wide feet and the hair on her toes .
Dolly was embarrassed that she was staring.
Hillary s eyes, glared at her from behind coke-bottle-thick lenses with an air of real hostility.
Her thick eyebrows melded together stretching across her forehead.
In that moment, I noticed that the woman emitted an overpowering odor of perspiration and greasy hair.
I hoped that I wouldn t gag when she got in the car .
I was stunned thinking it was some kind of a sick joke a woman in a hideous disguise.
Finally the introduction: Dolly, this is Hillary.
Hillary, Dolly.
Dolly extended her hand but Hillary only glared and nodded.
The plan had been to go the Fulbright s campaign headquarters, but when the votes came in he was losing.
Hillary signaled to Bill and the plan was changed.
He would head back to the airport.
I don t want to be seen with a loser, Bill told Dolly.
This was his mentor on the most critical night of his 30-year career.
It brought tears to Dolly s eyes that he would not pay his respects to the man responsible for his career.
At that time, Hillary was working in Washington, DC and trying to become a political force under her own steam .
It was a futile attempt, Dolly writes.Her job with the Watergate investigation ended.
I do believe that Hillary showed the same lack of integrity there that would later get her into more serious trouble .
Dolly suggested her boss had little respect for Hillary as a young lawyer and he doubted that she had any potential to bring honor to the profession .
A lawyer and graduate of Yale, Hillary wanted a career in Washington.
She flunked the DC bar exam and moved to Fayetteville, Arkansas, where Bill was teaching law at the University of Arkansas.
But she had her spies there months before to uncover Bill s lovers but being furriners from Chicago, they weren t getting any help on ratting out Bill.
Dolly started sleeping with Bill after high school and admits Billy was a sex addict; I was a codependent .
Then I read about sex addiction.
I realized that Billy and I shared a similar problem, she writes.
He confessed his sex addiction to Dolly in 1987 and was undone by Wilt Chamberlain s claim to have slept with 20,000 women.
That s ten times more than I ve had!
he told Dolly.
He notoriously never used a condom and Dolly guessed Hillary wasn t concerned because she wasn t sleeping with him because of her lifestyle .
It didn t matter that Bill married Hillary in October 1975, Dolly writes.
Dolly and Bill continued their love affair and were safe in Arkansas because no one liked Hillary, she says.
Chomping at the bit for her own term as governor or president, she still had private investigators tracking Bill and the women he was dating or attacking .
Bill called her the Warden , but she had to keep his nose clean in the public mind because she was riding his coattails to political power .Read more: Daily Mail