Last week, after the news about Hollywood kingpin Harvey Weinstein being hit with multiple accusations of sexual harassment, Donald Trump Jr., asked if Hillary would disavow the embattled Hollywood producer who made significant contributions to her campaign for President against his father.
Weinstein also held considerable influence over Hollywood dolts to support her.Will She/they all Disavow?
Embattled Hollywood Producer Harvey Weinstein Raised Big Bucks For Hillary Clinton & Dems https://t.co/6PHQaAQFNm Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 6, 2017That s a great question Donald Jr. And what about Pocahontas, aka Senator Elizabeth Warren?
Will she disavow and return campaign contributions from the guy who championed women in office, while simultaneously using his position to sexually harass them?
How very Hollywood.Does anyone remember the outrage and the Hollywood celebrities including Ashley Judd, who is now one of his accusers who took to DC wearing p*ssy hats to show their disgust for a conversation between two men that was recorded about a certain female?
How many of those same women were simultaneously begging Harvey Weinstein, who was apparently a well known sexual predator, for a job?
Well, today Harvey got some very bad news Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced co-founder and CEO of The Weinstein Company, has been fired effective immediately, his board of directors said on Sunday.The statement said: In light of new information about misconduct by Harvey Weinstein that has emerged in the past few days, the directors of The Weinstein Company Robert Weinstein, Lance Maerov, Richard Koenigsberg and Tarak Ben Ammar have determined, and have informed Harvey Weinstein, that his employment with The Weinstein Company is terminated, effective immediately.
The company has been under intense pressure since The New York Times broke an investigative story on Thursday detailing three decades of sexual misconduct, including propositioning actresses and harassing female employees.
More ugly stories continued to dribble out over the weekend, including a vulgar report by a news anchor that Weinstein masturbated in front of her and other stories of inappropriate propositions.Internally Weinstein continued to fight for his survival, insiders have told TheWrap.
His advisors including his brother Bob told him that he needed to take the allegations seriously and not merely pay lip service.
They wanted him to leave for six months and get treatment for sex addiction or whatever his behavior may be called.Weinstein told TheWrap in an interview on Thursday that he was sincere in his apology and intention to make amends.
But reports continued to leak out of the company internally that the CEO was determined to dictate the terms of his leave of absence and treatment.Harvey and Bob Weinstein co-founded the indie film company Miramax in 1979 and grew it into a powerhouse brand that made art-house films mainstream and reshaped the Academy Awards race with aggressive marketing and buzz.The company was bought by Disney in 1993, where the brothers continued to run the company and dominate the Oscar race until they left in 2005 to launch the new privately held The Weinstein Company.
The brothers have a 44 percent stake in the firm, according to the Times.For entire story: The Wrap