Let s face it, we have a president who s going rogue and defying the rule of law at every turn.
This is not your mama s lame duck presidency, but a stealth effort to do everything possible to push the agenda at all costs.
The big question is that if Obama continues to defy the rule of law like this, shouldn t Congress finally take action against him?
Who ll stand up?
I ve got a pen and I ve got a phone.
And I can use that pen to sign executive orders and take executive actions King Obama A newly leaked internal DHS memorandum produced for an off-the-record agency conclave reveals that the Obama administration is actively planning to circumvent a federal court injunction that suspended part of last November s deferral-based amnesty initiative.
The document, apparently prepared as follow-up from a DHS Regulations Retreat last summer, appears sure to re-ignite concerns in Congress as well as federal judges in the Fifth Circuit.
The Administration has already been criticized from the bench for handing out work permits to hundreds of thousands of deferred action beneficiaries, in direct violation of a district court s order.
With the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals deciding any day now whether to deny the Administration s request to reverse that injunction, this public leak has come at a critical juncture for U.S. enforcement policy.
Last June, four months after Texas federal judge Andrew Hanen s order to freeze President s DAPA and Expanded DACA programs disclosure: the Immigration Reform Law Institute has filed briefs in these cases DHS s immigration policy makers apparently held a Regulations Retreat to discuss different options for open market Employment Authorization Document (EAD) regulatory changes.
EAD is the statutory term for work permits.
From a memo recording these discussions, we now know that the Obama DHS has, rather than pausing to allow the courts to assess the constitutionality of its enforcement nullification initiatives, been gearing up to roll out one or more of four plans drawn up at the meeting, each one designed to provide EADs to millions of nonimmigrants, including those lawfully present and visa overstayers, crippling the actual employment-based visa system on the federal statute-book.
Read more: The Hill