Even though the election war is far from over, Tim Kaine won today s battle with Donald Trump when he blasted him for his blatant disrespect for the military and declared him unfit to serve as President of the United States as a result.Speaking near Fort Bragg, one of the country s largest Army bases, Kaine brought the crowd to their feet when he proclaimed the Republican nominee unfit to be Commander-in-Chief.
Kaine said: Anybody who says the American military is a disaster is unfit to be commander in chief.
I don t think, in the history of the United States, there has been a major party nominee who has talked with such disrespect about the military, The vice presidential candidate then shredded Trump for his callous remarks about Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) having been a prisoner of war while fighting for the United States in Vietnam.
Kaine ripped into the billionaire bully for saying he didn t consider people who had been captured to be heroes.
How about making fun of John McCain for being a POW?
he asked.
Could you be more thick-headed, insensible and ignorant than that?
Kaine also tore into Trump for attacking the Khan family, whose son was an Army captain that sacrificed his life in Iraq to save the lives of his fellow soldiers.
Going after a Gold Star family?
I ve gotta believe in North Carolina that s viewed the same way it s viewed in Virginia, Kaine said.Kaine then compared Trump s reaction to Khizr Khan s criticisms at the Democratic National Convention to that of Hillary Clinton in response to remarks made by family members grieving for those who were killed in Benghazi at the Republican National Convention.
Unlike Trump, Kaine explained, his running mate would never consider attacking a grieving military family.
That s not what a president does, said Kaine emphatically.
That s not what a president does.
And Donald Trump is not ready to be president.
Watch Tim Kaine declare Trump unfit to serve as president because of his disrespect for the military, here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEmklpv4SsM]Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images