President Trump gathered the Senators in the State dining room today and let it rip on Obama Awesome!President Trump then called on GOP Senators to continue working through recess on repealing and replacing Obamacare:Trump calls on GOP Senators to continue working through August recess on repealing Obamacare: Frankly, I don t think we should leave town pic.twitter.com/wf8PWRqn8c BuzzFeed News (@BuzzFeedNews) July 19, 2017It s a full court press from Trump!
He thought the votes were there to pass this yesterday and has said he is very disappointed in the failure of the Senate to pass this Obamacare repeal and replace:In an impromptu White House presser during President Trump s lunch with Vice President Pence, Trump drove home how disappointed he is about health care: Let Obamacare fail, it will be a lot easier.
And I think we re probably in that position where we ll just let Obamacare fail.
We re not going to own it.
I m not going to own it.
I can tell you the Republicans are not going to own it.
We ll let Obamacare fail and then the Democrats are going to come to us.
Why it matters: Trump is acknowledging defeat and now, rather than support Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell s push to repeal with out a replacement bill, he s decided to let Barack Obama s Affordable Care Act remain the law of the land.
fast forward and McConnell s straight repeal plan collapses with 3 no votes.
The three no votes came from three women who should really be in the D column: By Tuesday afternoon, three Republican senators all women had come out against Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell s plan to push a vote on a clean Obamacare repeal bill enough to sink it altogether.
Sens.
Susan Collins (R-ME), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) confirmed they would not vote for a repeal bill that delayed enacting the policy by two years.Susan Collins needs to go!President Trump also said he was surprised when Senators Moran and Lee came out as No s last night.
We thought they were in fairly good shape.
For 7 years I ve been hearing repeal and replace and when we finally get a chance to repeal and replace, we can t. We are winning the war on the border, we re decimating ISIS we ve had a lot of victories but we haven t had a victory on health care.
I m very disappointed.
Once the Affordable Care Act fails, then everyone needs to come together and fix it, said Trump.
Democrats have no ideas.
They have no thought process.
All they want to do is obstruct government and obstruct period.
Obamacare isn t failing, it s failed.
It s gone.