Mexico s former President, Vicente Fox, isn t shy at all about his disdain for Republican nominee Donald Trump and he really turned things up a notch after last night s presidential debate.Anyone who watched the debate (or has access to the internet) knows by now that Trump blew it.
His performance was so weak and he was so unprepared, even Republican pundits have admitted that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton won by a landslide and Fox wasn t afraid to point this out.
On Tuesday, Fox decided to go after Trump while it s going to hurt the most, knowing full well that the business mogul s ego is likely suffering from embarrassment.On Twitter, Fox teased Trump mercilessly for his horrendous performance, directly asking Trump what does losing feel like?
on Twitter.
To rub this in even more, Fox posted a screenshot of one of Trump s pathetic fundraising emails, proving to the world that Trump s campaign is still struggling and begging for money: @realDonaldTrump you have no shame, I just got another e-mail begging for help.
Tell me what does losing feels like?
Have a little dignity!
@realDonaldTrump you have no shame, I just got another e-mail begging for help.
Tell me what does losing feels like?
Have a little dignity!
pic.twitter.com/avrV9WKG9T Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) September 27, 2016Continuing to pour salt into the wound, Fox also praised Clinton for showing capacity, compassion and wisdom while bashing Trump for looking afoul.
The attack was brutal:TwitterTwitterIt s been awhile since Fox has been in the media for attacking Trump, but he sure knows how to make an appearance.
This election cycle, the former President of Mexico has repeatedly made headlines for slamming Trump and publicly stating that Mexico will not pay for his f*cking wall.
Fox has also said that Trump reminds me of Hitler and even challenged Trump to a debate once (which Trump was too cowardly to accept).
We can only expect that over the next few weeks, Fox is going to support Clinton to the fullest, and do whatever he can to convince Americans not to vote for Trump.Featured image via Win McNamee / Pool Getty Images