On October 25, 2017, the liberal Boston Globe ran an article that featured 3 GOP candidates who plan to challenge fake Indian Elizabeth Warren for her Senate seat in 2018.
There s only one major problem with the article Many people have no clue who these 3 candidates are, but they do know who the pro-Trump, conservative candidate Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai is.Dr.
Shiva Ayyadurai made a name for himself long before he announced his run against the liberal, lying, darling of the left Senator Elizabeth Warren.On February 25, 2017, Dr. Ayyadurai announced his candidacy for the GOP Senate nomination in Massachusetts:Today, ShivaRatri, when Light overcame Darkness, we launched my campaign for US SENATE against @SenWarren.
Defend the American Dream!
Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) February 25, 2017Time to take fight right into the belly of the beast in MA, the epi-center of Fake News, Fake History & Fake Science!
@nntaleb @Cernovich Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) February 25, 2017Dr.
Shiva Ayyadurai is a conservative, a successful businessman, an ardent supporter of President Trump, and is best known for his invention of the email when he was only 14-years-old.
Recently, Elizabeth Warren came under fire, after she was caught by the Boston Herald for making up allegations of sexual misconduct by a Harvard professor, where Warren worked after lying on her application, claiming Native American heritage, to place herself in line in front of other applicants for the job.Dr.
Shiva Ayyadurai made national news when mocked Warren by sending her a DNA kit for her birthday, saying it was a gift from a real Indian to a fake Indian .I'm deeply saddened @SenWarren refused my thoughtful (gift-wrapped) Birthday Gift: the 23&me DNA Test Kit.
Most unfortunate!
#FakeIndian pic.twitter.com/BI7F20wDW8 Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) July 2, 2017Curiously, even after all of the news Ayyadurai made with his gift to Warren, and considering his impressive accomplishments as a private citizen thus far, the same Boston Globe writer, Jim O Sullivan who wrote a hit piece on Dr. Ayyadurai in August of 2017, seems to have forgotten to include Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai, in his piece written only two months later, on October 25, 2017, about 3 of Elizabeth Warren s GOP challengers in the upcoming senate race.Now look at this in "liberal" @BostonGlobe.
The "darkie" candidate Shiva doesn't exist.
THEY are THE White Supremacist.
@DineshDSouza pic.twitter.com/clX3vGyoRb Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) October 30, 2017He s the inventor of email and polymath, holds four degrees from MIT, is a world-renowned systems scientist, inventor, and entrepreneur.
Yet, somehow, the same Boston Globe writer, Jim O Sullivan, who clearly knew Ayyadurai was running against Warren way back on August 14, 2017, when he wrote a hit piece on him for daring to speak in defense of free speech rally in Boston, neglected to mention that Ayyadurai is one of the GOP candidates running against Warren.The Boston Globe got slammed on Twitter for their obvious omission of the brilliant and badass GOP Senate hopeful:Why doesn't @BostonGlobe like brown people?
Maybe they only like faux Indians.
Robin McWilliams (@Queen0fcups) October 30, 2017I am appalled!
VA Shiva announced his candidacy long ago!
The Globe is well aware of it!
marie (@singsandsews) October 30, 2017Here s Dr. Ayyadurai addressing the graduates that leftist Harvard University educates, that go on to become the Swamp of Washington D.C.:Cambridge Team Shiva 4 Senate Live in Harvard Square https://t.co/MASgHbNkeq Dr. Shiva Ayyadurai (@va_shiva) October 29, 2017From Ayyadurai s website about who he is and why he s running for Senate:I am running for United States Senate from Massachusetts to be a 21st century Senator.
We stand at the crossroads where we can either head into a Golden Age or into the Darkness.
Incredible innovation and solutions, which have been created by everyday Americans, already exist for energy, education, health, affordable housing and much more.
What stands in the way are the old guard of career politicians, political hacks, lawyer-lobbyists and academics who pervade Washington and local government with corruption and crony capitalism that chokes and suffocates these innovations and solutions from reaching us.
America becomes great when innovators, entrepreneurs, working people with skills and those committed to using common sense and reason run this country.
The Founders of America were blacksmiths, engineers, soldiers, architects, entrepreneurs, scientists they actually worked for a living and produced through their labor, products, and services to help other citizens.I stand before you as someone who is a personification of the American Dream.
My parents and I left the caste system of India in 1970 where we were considered low caste Untouchables and Deplorables .
We first settled in Paterson, NJ and I went through the public school system where I was fortunate to have come across incredibly dedicated teachers, coaches and mentors.Feel free to DONATE to Dr. Shiva Ayyardurai s campaign HERE.