James Comey, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is in hot water for sending a vague letter about some emails that were found on Anthony Weiner s computer, which he linked to Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton after saying months ago that the matter of Hillary s private server was resolved.
While it could be expected that Democrats would be furious that Comey would do such a thing just 11 days before what is easily the hottest national election cycle in recent memory, Comey is getting pushback from unexpected sources as well: Republicans.Judiciary Chair Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) had harsh words for Comey, saying in part, via a letter: Unfortunately, your letter failed to give Congress and the American people enough context to evaluate the significance or full meaning of this development.
Without additional context, your disclosure is not fair to Congress, the American people, or Secretary Clinton.
Grassley, of course, is far from the only person of influence who is troubled by Comey s actions.
Despite his reputation as a man of integrity, people on both sides of the aisle regard Friday s letter as a grave mistake.
Grassley s letter continued: In the absence of additional, authoritative information from the FBI in the wake of your vague disclosure, Congress and the American people are left to sift through anonymous leaks from Justice Department officials to the press of varying levels of detail, reliability, and consistency.
The American people deserve better than that.
Grassley is right.
The only possible connection those emails have to Hillary Clinton is the fact that the computer they were found on was shared by her longtime aide, Huma Abedin, who, of course, is the estranged wife of Anthony Weiner.
Weiner, of course, is the disgraced former Congressman being investigated for allegedly sexting with a minor.
So, in other words, nothing to see here folks.Perhaps most startling of all was a tweet from former Congressman Joe Walsh, who is now a right-wing radio host known for being an avid Trump supporter and is no stranger to controversy, including social media posts that could be interpreted as calls to violence.
Even Walsh, however, had to admit that what Comey did was flat-out wrong:Hillary is corrupt as hell, but the FBI Dir has no right to mess with an election.He goes public cuz of emails no one has seen?
Just wrong Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) October 31, 2016At the end of the day, the integrity of our elections are the bedrock of our democracy.
That should ALWAYS supersede politics.
If Director Comey cannot understand and abide by that principle, he should resign immediately.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images