Paul Ryan is in a little bit of hot water.
Not because he s establishment, not because he s proposing a giant cut to Medicare or Medicaid, and not because he s thwarting the RNC.No, he s in hot water because he seems to think that lack of diversity is a good thing!The Speaker recently posted a picture on his Instagram page celebrating the new interns for the Republican Party on Capitol Hill.
The picture, taken with a selfie stick, shows the smiling Speaker with an entire whites-only workforce, with the majority of them being men.
No diversity, no color, nothing but lily-white college kids.The Speaker wrote, I think this sets a record for the most number of #CapitolHill interns in a single selfie.
#SpeakerSelfie.
Needless to say, Speaker Ryan and the Republicans faced backlash.But it was the Democrats who had the best response.Everyone knows the Democratic Party is the party of inclusiveness.
Everyone, no matter their race, ethnicity, religion, gender or sexual orientation is welcome, in all capacities.
While the Republicans seem to have a whites only policy when hiring interns, the Democrats like to broaden their horizons.Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas, posted on her Twitter page a picture of the Democratic interns.
And, well, there is a big difference:Can anyone tell me what the difference is?
Well, for starters, there s more women.
There s also individuals of all different races and ethnicities.The difference could not be more stark.
As Republicans (yet again) struggle to appeal to minority voters, it should come as no surprise to them why those who aren t white males have a hard time trusting them.Just take a look at their convention.
Out of the 2,400 delegates at the RNC (who nominated Trump to be their candidate), only 18 were people of color, which amounts to approximately 0.0075 percent.Of the 71 prime-time speakers who will be addressing the convention over the four days, 80 percent are white.
Only seven speakers are black, and three are Latino.When 100 percent of your interns are white, more than 99 percent of your delegates are white, and 80 percent of your speakers are white, you don t deserve the minority vote.
You cannot be trusted nor taken seriously if you refuse to have them represented in your most official capacities.No wonder this year s RNC was branded RNC so White.
This year s GOP is the least diverse.
It really is now the party of Donald Trump.
They learned absolutely nothing from their 2012 autopsy report, and they may suffer irreparable damage in November.Featured image via Sheila Jackson Lee/Twitter