The more we get to know Donald Trump, the more we realize that he s just a big orange version of Kim Jong-Un.
He s childish, petulant and thin skinned, and anyone who has wronged him had better watch out.
Mitt Romney wronged Donald Trump.
He refuses to endorse the billionaire and well, it appears that Trump is holding a grudge against Romney from 2012.
Trump wants credit for helping him lose the election, or something like that.On Sunday s Meet the Press, Trump talked about the feud that appears to be happening between the 2012 nominee and the 2016 presumptive nominee.
Every single robocall I made, he won that state.
Every single speech I made, he won that state, in terms of the primaries.
I believe I won him, or helped him win five states that he was going to lose in the primaries, Trump continued.And that support came with personal cost to Trump.
I raised a lot of money for him.
I ruined the carpet in my apartments I had so many people come.
We actually had to have two fundraisers because there were so many people.
Here s the video:It is true that in 2012, Trump endorsed Romney.
As for Trump s argument that he would have taken Romney over the victory line if he accepted more help, well, probably not.
At that time, the Trump revolution (or whatever you want to call it) had not yet started.
Polls at the time showed that Trump would have been a negative on Romney s campaign.Romney hasn t always been so sour on Trump.
After receiving his endorsement, Romney sung Trump s praises in a way that almost sounds like a presidential endorsement.In an interview in March, Trump said that Romney begged him for his endorsement in 2012.
Mitt is a failed candidate he failed horribly, Trump said.
I backed Mitt Romney.
You could see how loyal he is.
He was begging for my endorsement.
I could ve said, Mitt, drop to your knees, and he would ve dropped to his knees.
He was begging.
He was begging me.
It s doubtful that Romney actually begged Trump, but the former candidate does claim that if Trump acted the way then that he does now (he did), then he wouldn t have accepted it:If Trump had said 4 years ago the things he says today about the KKK, Muslims, Mexicans, disabled, I would NOT have accepted his endorsement Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) March 3, 2016If Romney had any of your sympathy, this is where he should lose it.
He knew what Trump was about long before 2012.
As you recall, during the Arab Spring in 2011, when Muammar Gaddafi was persona-non-grata in the United States, Trump rented him a piece of land.
His racism was clearly evident in his birther stance and with this tweet in response to Baltimore riots following the death of Freddie Gray.
Our great African American President hasn t exactly had a positive impact on the thugs who are so happily and openly destroying Baltimore!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 28, 2015His views on immigration are hardly new:Stop the EBOLA patients from entering the U.S.
Treat them, at the highest level, over there.
THE UNITED STATES HAS ENOUGH PROBLEMS!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2014And of course, we know that Trump is sexist.
None of that is what matters to Romney, though, although Romney does enjoy the illusion of decorum.
What matters to Romney is that Trump has no core beliefs.
He even flip-flops on how he ll treat his and Romney s own kind, but he does seem to be settling on raising taxes for the wealthy, sort of.
That might be just a bit too far for Romney.Featured image via video screen shot.