What started as a prank to annoy Trump supporters has turned into a viral vide which may just help Americans come back together again and that really would be great.A group of Muslim men walk into a Trump rally It sounds like the set up either to a joke, or a news report.
But actually, it s a true story.
As Patheos reports:Peace House, a media, art and activism group, sent a few Muslims undercover to a Trump rally, where they acted like Trump supporters themselves, to get to know the supporters and see how they would be treated.
As they said in the video produced from their experience, they thought they d come away with footage that would prove funny and show supporters to be the caricatures many others thought them to be.The group entered the Donald Trump rally wearing Muslims for Trump T-shirts.
They had seen protesters violently assaulted and evicted from previous rallies, and they arrived to get a good laugh at the expense of some dollar store racists.They began by hamming up the Islamophobia.
You should be scared standing next to me right now one of the men tells a concerned looking Trump supporter.
I ve gotta be extra careful, I ve gotta look at myself in the mirror every morning and say Don t do anything stupid.'
But when they started actually talking with people in the crowd, they stopped laughing, as something dawned on them.
These people weren t monsters.
They were justifiably angry, but their anger had been misdirected.
It made them want to make a very different video, one that would bring people back together, rather than separate them further.
As they explain in the video: What happened to us completely changed our view of Trump supporters We went expecting the worst.
But all of us were pretty surprised to see how loving and good intentioned these people were.
If you voted for Trump, or you re planning on it, please watch this video.
We wanna reach out to you.
What follows is a truly extraordinary insight into how America might begin to heal itself from one of the most divisive and brutal electoral cycles in its history.https://www.facebook.com/PeacehouseUS/videos/527339194115003/The video has already racked up over 8 million views in around 24 hours, and the response has been overwhelmingly positive.
The group even reached out to Mr. Trump on Twitter to send the message directly to the source..@realDonaldTrump we have a humble message for you and your supporters.
#LetsTalk https://t.co/P8m8KvbSoE Peace House (@PeaceHouseUS) April 11, 2016Instead of getting shut down, people responded to the message like you might to an oasis in a desert.
The relief is palpable.
@PeaceHouseUS @realDonaldTrump thank u so much for this wonderful reminder!
We are all in this 2gether and need to fight against them not us Maris Lawson (@immaris) April 11, 2016@PeaceHouseUS this touched, and moved me!
Thank you.
You're message is appreciated & indispensable .
For those who listen.
It will resonate Kev (@seeukev) April 11, 2016Comment via Facebook The Peace House video has captured people hearts, and their imaginations, reminding us all of what actually makes America great.
That is a collective and cooperative spirit, that makes us greater than the sum of our parts.Featured image via screengrab