For more than two weeks now, the nation has watched in frustration as a band of wannabe patriots who are nothing more than domestic terrorists have continuously disrupted the lives of the good people of Harney County, Oregon with their armed occupation of the Malheur Wildlife Refuge.
Well, it seems that these fools may have met their match.Kieran Suckling, who is the Executive Director of the Center for Biological Diversity, says that there is a couple who is challenging the armed idiots in their own way, and it is nothing short of glorious.
According the the Center s Facebook: Each night, these two tent camp in the rain and snow.
Each morning, they wake up, warm up, and go down the road to protest the Bundy militia s daily press conference.
They won t leave until the militants do, they say.
They are here, they say, because our laws and public land deserve the dignity and protection of people standing up peacefully yet forcefully against those who would steal them at gunpoint.
I love these people.
We offered them a warm room at our hotel, but they declined, saying that the land needed people who love it to be present at all times.
What this unidentified couple is doing is nothing short of heroic.
It is certainly more than the authorities are doing.
These fools have been disrupting lives, terrorizing the locals, destroying property and committing any number of felonies unchecked for way too long as it is.
Kudos to these REAL patriots for standing up to them.Suckling said that on Monday, there was to be a celebration of the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday, and expressed his thoughts on what Dr. King would think of this occupation, and how he would react: Dr. King understood nature deeply, teaching us It really boils down to this: that all life is interrelated.
We are all caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied into a single garment of destiny.
Whatever affects one destiny, affects all indirectly.
But we ll also peacefully confront the Bundy militia at the buildings and land they have taken from us all by armed force.
We believe that is what Martin Luther King, Jr. would do.
We must bear witness to this great injustice and show the militia thugs that America won t be scared away from its public lands by guns and threats.
So right.
It really is great that people are finally standing up to the these militants, with or without the help of law enforcement.That couple deserves a medal for what they are doing.Featured image via Raw Story