Republican presidential hopeful Ben Carson was confronted by an LGBT activist on Monday evening about the retired neurosurgeon s previous remarks that gay people have made the choice to be gay and luckily the awkward encounter was recorded on camera and posted by ABC News.Carson had been meeting with supporters at a town hall meeting in Staten Island.
As he posed for pictures, a woman wearing a Pride Center of Staten Island t-shirt approached him and said she wanted to ask him a question.
She said: I have a quick question.
Do you think I chose to be gay?
Carson was taken completely off guard and repeated her question back to her, avoiding a clear answer as many others looked on.
He replied, Did you choose to be gay?
That s a long conversation.
Fully aware that the answer really wasn t that complicated, the activist walked away but not before telling Carson, I think you re full of sh*t. You can watch the Carson squirm in the footage below:WATCH: @realBenCarson confronted at Staten Island town hall: Do you think I chose to be gay?
https://t.co/gL3N7TXpO1 ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) January 5, 2016Like many of his fellow Republicans, Carson s rhetoric is plagued by anti-gay remarks.
Carson clearly expressed his stance on whether or not he felt homosexuality was a choice when he spoke to CNN s Chris Cuomo in March.
Cuomo had asked Carson what his opinion was on the matter and Carson s unwavering response was: Absolutely.
Because a lot of people who go into prison, go into prison straight, and when they come out they re gay.
So, did something happen while they were in there?
Ask yourself that question.
Carson has said plenty of other equally ridiculous things about the LGBT community as well.
In the past, he s likened homosexuals to pedophiles and those who engage in bestiality, and claimed that God thinks being gay is an abomination.
And despite all his anti-LGBT comments and attempts to make sure that the LGBT community doesn t get the same rights as heterosexuals, Carson still has the nerve to say gay people are more protected than Christians.Featured image video screen capture