The hosts of Fox & Friends were hoping a Minnesota police chief would vilify the Somali immigrants in his community and they promptly got their asses handed to them.On Saturday, 22-year-old Dahir A. Adan went on a stabbing spree inside a Minnesota mall.
The Somali community in St.
Cloud has roundly condemned the act of terrorism, but Republican nominee Donald Trump spewed fear and hate in response during a phone call with Fox and called the immigrants a Trojan horse and a cancer from within that benefits ISIS.Fox host Steve Doocy, who was named in Gretchen Carlson s sexual harassment lawsuit against the conservative network, asked St.
Cloud Police Chief William Blair Anderson if he agrees with Trump s assessment of immigrants, clearly hoping that Anderson would join in demonizing them.Instead, Anderson swatted Doocy down like the pest he is and made it clear that there are bad apples in every group and that we should unite rather than divide and hate.
My job is public safety.
It s not in immigration policy.
I can tell you that the vast majority of all of our citizens, no matter their ethnicity, are fine, hard-working people, and now is not the time for us to be divisive.
We already have a very cohesive community, and I expect that this will draw us even closer together.
But at the end of the day, our job is public safety, period.
Anderson then explained that law enforcement works well with all members of the community to protect the public the best they can.
We actually work very well not just with our East African community, but all of our community.
We meet regularly with any number of people, whether they are advocates for a specific ethnicity or different cause.
It s one of things that makes St.
Cloud a wonderful place to live, and I know that might sound corny, but it s the truth.
We have established and maintained a very good rapport with our East African community and our community at large.
Doocy then tucked his tail between his legs and ended the interview because he didn t get the response he wanted.Here s the video via Media Matters:Demonizing an entire community simply because of the actions of a few only ostracizes them and could cause more to radicalize.
That s why we should reach out to these immigrants instead of hating them.Fox News is irresponsibly pushing an us versus them mentality that only creates a never-ending circle of hate and mistrust that hurts our country in the long-term.
But let s also remember that ISIS would not exist to recruit people in America in the first place had Republicans not pursued an unnecessary war in Iraq that created the power vacuum that allowed ISIS to rise.
Furthermore, despite their concerns and their whining, Republicans still refuse to declare war on ISIS to give President Obama the full resources of the United States to fight the terrorist organization.Regardless, any group will have bad apples, even the white Christians Fox News caters to.
Let s not forget that Timothy McVeigh committed the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 that killed 168 people while Dylan Roof gunned down nine black people inside a church in 2015.
Both acts of domestic terrorism were committed by white males who were born here in the United States.
But Fox News would rather freak out about a Somali immigrant who used a knife in an attack in which no one was killed.
If Adan were white, not only would this not be referred to as an act of terror, it would have been a mere footnote in the news.Featured Image: Screenshot