The mainstream media will never show you both sides of the story, so we will In 2015, hedge fund magnate Anthony Scaramucci appeared on Fox Business Network, where he slammed anti-American Trump for being another hack who will probably make Elizabeth Warren as his vice presidential nominee.
Scaramucci also delivered a message to Trump while he was on a roll, You re an inherited-money dude from Queens County.
Bring it, Donald.
Bring it.
The mainstream media will likely play his comments on a loop, as a way to discredit President Trump and his new pick to replace the outspoken White House communications director Sean Spicer.Scarmucci s emotional comments were in response to what he perceived to be an attack by Trump on hedge fund managers.
During his campaign, Trump vowed to reform the tax code to ensure that hedge fund managers paid their fair share of taxes.
He called hedge fund managers paper-pushers, and said he would seek to help the middle-class by lowering their tax burden.
The hedge fund guys are getting away with murder.
They re making a tremendous amount of money.
They have to pay taxes.
I want to lower the rates for the middle class.
The middle class is the one, they re getting absolutely destroyed.
This country doesn t have won t have a middle class very soon.
Trump told CBS News.After the announcement was made today about the changing of the guard in the White House communication department, Scaramucci appeared on FOX to explain his position.
The video below shows the disparaging comments about candidate Donald J. Trump that Scaramucci made on FOX Business Network in 2015, as well as a clip from today showing Scaramucci putting his remarks into context that he made when he was admittedly an unexperienced person in the world of politics .
In addition to apologizing profusely for his misguided remarks, Scaramucci also admitted that he was supporting another candidate at the time he made the comments about Donald J.
Trump.Watch:.
@Scaramucci called @POTUS a hack in 2015.He has publicly apologized today.
MSM may choose not to show his apology.
Both clips back to back pic.twitter.com/euEeNWQgbL Corryn (@Corrynmb) July 21, 2017After his much-talked about attack on undocumented immigrants, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is now taking on hedge fund managers, vowing to reform the tax code to ensure they pay their fair share.
In a campaign marked by his now-trademark bombastic style, Trump called hedge fund managers paper-pushers, and said he would seek to help the middle-class by lowering their tax burden.
The hedge fund guys are getting away with murder.
They re making a tremendous amount of money.
They have to pay taxes.
I want to lower the rates for the middle class.
The middle class is the one, they re getting absolutely destroyed.
This country doesn t have won t have a middle class very soon, Trump told CBS News.