This may shock you, this may not, but Trump has been delegating the duty of writing his executive orders to some scary people well, a scary person, that is.If you thought executive orders limiting Muslim entry into the United States, stripping health international organizations of federal funds if they so much as mention abortion, authorizing the building of literal f*cking concentration camps to hold the illegals The Donald intends to round up, and beginning the process of stripping health care from millions of impoverished Americans sounded like Breitbart s Christmas list come to life, you were exactly right.According to White House aides, Trump has been delegating the duty of writing the rapid stream of absolutely f*cking terrifying executive orders to the same guy who ran Breitbart.
Trump s Chief Strategist and former executive chair called his publication a platform for the alt-right (for those who are unaware, alt-right means Nazi ) and the views that would be associated with one who cultivates that sort of cesspool are definitely making themselves apparent in the nature of Trump s orders.Things are a mess in the White House at the moment.
According to Politico, no one seems to have any idea what the hell they are doing or, more importantly, what Trump is doing with his flawed orders that might be unworkable, unenforceable or even illegal :Just a small circle of officials at the Department of Health and Human Services knew about the executive action starting to unwind Obamacare, and only less than two hours before it was released.
Key members of Congress weren t consulted either, according to several members.
And at a conference in Philadelphia, GOP legislators say they had no idea whether some of the executive orders would contrast with existing laws because they hadn t reviewed them.The breakneck pace of Trump s executive actions might please his supporters, but critics are questioning whether the documents are being rushed through without the necessary review from agency experts and lawmakers who will bear the burden of actually carrying them out.
For example, there are legal questions on how the country can force companies building pipelines to use materials manufactured domestically, which might not be available or which could violate trade treaty obligations.
There s also the question of whether the federal government can take billions from cities who don t comply with immigration enforcement actions: Legal experts said it was unclear.Aides say that it is often difficult to know what order Trump intends to sign at any given moment or even what is in some of them because of the secretive nature in which they are being drafted by Bannon and the small circle of friends Trump has handling them.To make matters worse, Bannon is in the process of a huge power grab right now, giving two of his former staffers at the white supremacist hate rag seats at the table.
The Hill reports:One of Breitbart s biggest stars, Julia Hahn, is expected to join the White House as an aide to Bannon.
Breitbart s national security editor, Sebastian Gorka, will also relocate to the White House, likely with a spot on the president s National Security Council, Business Insider reported on Tuesday.The Breitbartization of the White House comes as no surprise to people at the conservative news site.
I m surprised it took this long, one Breitbart reporter told The Hill.
There are a number of people on staff who clearly have resumes that would lend themselves to the administration.
These two are ideologically in line with Bannon.
They re people he can trust.
It makes sense.
There is no line of separation between the White House and Breitbart they are one in the same, a former Breitbart spokesman who has since disavowed the right-wing hate factory, told The Hill.
They effectively are a state-sponsored/controlled platform designed to advance the administration s propaganda.
And the administration, in turn, is bringing Breitbart s propaganda to life.Featured image via Getty Images/Ben Jackson