It can easily be said that Donald Trump doesn t live in reality.
He lives in his own world filled with delusion and a narrative that he s created on his own.
Why?
Who knows, really.
Maybe because his fragile ego doesn t allow him to see the fact that he lost the popular vote by three million votes and the majority of America doesn t like him at all.Since Trump took office there have been protests nationwide to let him know that both he and his agenda are not welcome.
These protests have garnered millions of people outraged and offended that he s in the Oval Office, especially knowing that his campaign allegedly colluded with Russia to put him there.To make his ego feel better, Trump supporters, the vile bunch that they are, decided that they would come out on March 4, and throw support rallies for Trump.Let s not forget that this was at his request:Maybe the millions of people who voted to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN should have their own rally.
It would be the biggest of them all!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2017So, his supporters listened, jumped on their motorized scooters with American flag decals, and rallied for their supreme leader.
Then, after a handful of people showed up in a number of places in varying states, Trump decided in his own delusional brain that this was tremendous support you know, whatever helps him sleep at night.He wrote on Twitter: Thank you for the great rallies all across the country.
Tremendous support.
Make America Great Again!
Thank you for the great rallies all across the country.
Tremendous support.
Make America Great Again!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 5, 2017However, while there was support, it was far from tremendous.
Calling it moderate would even be far too generous.Here are some images from his tremendous rallies:WEST PALM BEACH, FL MARCH 04: People show their support for President Donald Trump near his Mar-a-Lago resort home on March 4, 2017 in West Palm Beach, Florida.
President Trump spent part of the weekend at the house.
(Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)WEST PALM BEACH, FL MARCH 04: Madi Page shows her support for President Donald Trump near his Mar-a-Lago resort home on March 4, 2017 in West Palm Beach, Florida.
President Trump spent part of the weekend at the house.
(Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)OLYMPIA, WA MARCH 4: Supporter Chuck Prater of Tacoma, Washington takes part in the March 4 Trump rally on March 4, 2017 in Olympia, Washington.
At the mostly peaceful rally for U.S. President Donald Trump, officials estimated there were approximately 200 supporters and 125 protesters.
(Photo by Stephen Brashear/Getty Images)Marching for trump #March4Trump CT pic.twitter.com/wurkEOQRW3 ?
?Kathy Jean ??
(@Kathrynjeansays) March 4, 2017 Thousands attended #March4Trump Miami rally .thousands attended.
@realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/8ApJz4clnx veronica arias (@vero00) March 4, 2017More people even seemed to be at these rallies to protest Trump than support him:Arrests made after some 'March 4 Trump' rallies turn violent https://t.co/Z1ysDxNcuW pic.twitter.com/Sj3AYAa4lX Fox News (@FoxNews) March 5, 2017With several fights breaking out:Follow @EastBayTimes and @mercnews for other streams guys.
The fight is getting serious here.
pic.twitter.com/skJD9UVhbU Aaron Davis (@BaronBavis) March 4, 2017But look, guys, his ego seems satisfied, and that s really all that matters, right?WEST PALM BEACH, FL MARCH 04: US President Donald Trump waves from his vehicle as he stops while being driven past supporters near his Mar-a-Lago resort home on March 4, 2017 in West Palm Beach, Florida.
President Trump spent part of the weekend at the house.
(Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Sad!Featured Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images