Donald Trump is now demanding that any probe into his administration s connections to Russia also include a probe into his wild allegation that President Obama tapped his wires in Trump Tower.
This dubious claim seems to have originated with a Breitbart article that had been circulating among White House staff.
The article in question claimed that President Obama had ordered a wiretap under the Foreign intelligence Surveillance Act, which allows a secret court to authorize surveillance in cases that involve agents of foreign powers in this case, Trump and two Russian banks.The article heavily referenced claimed made by conspiracy theorist Mark Levin on his far-Right radio show that we absolutely know this is true that Obama was monitoring Trump s team during the campaign.
But now that his ridiculous allegations are being scrutinized by people who aren t completely batsh*t insane, Levin is doing everything he can to walk them back while still maintaining credibility with the Stupid Part of America.During an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Levin called for a release of FISA court applications that may or may not exist as well as all of the daily presidential intelligence briefings for the last year or so.
He added that this massive conspiracy that suddenly popped up when the Russia situation was becoming too much for the Trump Team to handle wasn t limited to Obama.
Every single Democrat, according to Levin, was involved in trying to take Trump down.Asked about the level of President Obama s involvement, Levin gave himself a huge out :I m not Nostradamus here.
I just think that we ought to find out.In other words, he is pulling his claims out of thin air.
Via a spokesperson, President Obama cleared up his level of involvement on Saturday There wasn t any.
A cardinal rule of the Obama administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice, the spokesman said.
As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen.
Donald Trump is being attacked for [the accusations] he tweeted, Levin said, failing to note that he was the source of those allegations.
Donald Trump is the victim, his campaign is the victim, his transition team is the victim, his surrogates are the victim.
These are police state tactics.
To some degree, Levin is correct but not in the way he thinks.
Trump has recently been demanding investigations of his critics.
Members of his administration have also threatened to investigate journalists who do not write nice things about The Donald.
One Trump administration member confirmed that President Asterisk was compiling dossiers on journalists he views as unfriendly.
All of these things could very accurately be described as police state tactics but we re guessing Levin meant something about his favorite bogeyman, Barack Obama.Levin admits there is no basis for his claim but that doesn t matter to Donald Trump or conservatives at large.
By making the allegation knowing that people who can only be described as idiots would eat up, the Republicans are demanding answers and they will not be satisfied with any that do not paint Barack Obama as the monster they have known him to be ever since they realized he was black.Featured image via screengrab