A devastating new round of political polls shows that Donald Trump is one of the least liked political figures in the United States, and is poised for a loss in this November s presidential election.
Polling from multiple media organizations shows Trump in dire straits, with numbers that have to have Republican leaders worried they have to find some way out of nominating the reality TV star.The poll with the best news for Trump comes from NBC/Wall Street Journal.
In that poll, Trump is losing by 5% to Hillary Clinton.Forty-six percent of registered voters back Clinton, versus 41 percent who support Trump slightly up from Clinton s three-point lead in May, 46 percent to 43 percent.When the best news is a margin of defeat larger than Barack Obama had over Mitt Romney (3.9%), you have a problem.Turning to the Washington Post/ABC News poll, things get very bad for Trump, like on the verge of a 1984-style landslide bad.
In that poll, Clinton has a 12% lead over Trump.
She is ahead 51% to 39% in a poll taken after the mass shooting in Orlando.The key to Trump s poor performance in that poll is the widespread public perception that Trump is biased against Muslims and Latinos, combined with the strong belief that he is just not a credible world leader.Sixty-four percent of Americans now see Trump as unqualified to serve as president, up 6 points from an already-high 58 percent last month.
Thirty-four percent see him as qualified.Clinton s numbers are essentially the opposite, and unchanged: Sixty-one percent see her as qualified for the office, 37 percent as not qualified.
Moreover, while 33 percent feel strongly that Clinton is not qualified, many more 56 percent feel strongly that Trump doesn t pass this test.The third piece of evidence that Trump is taking on more water than the Titanic comes from Reuters poll, where he loses to Clinton by 13%.
In that poll 46.6% support Clinton, while only 33.3% back Trump.
In their write-up of that poll, Reuters took note of the giant gulf in financial support between the candidates.Campaign finance disclosures released earlier this week showed Trump started June with a war chest of just $1.3 million, a fraction of Clinton s $42 million.
Trump sought to ease concerns among his allies by saying that he could tap his unlimited personal wealth if needed, and also by bolstering efforts to raise money through fundraising events and online donations.Clintons leads in these polls are notable for a few reasons.
They are all headed in the same direction, they all come after a terrorist attack, where many believed that Trump may see an increase in support.
And this lead comes as President Obama s approval takes a major uptick (he s headed for Clinton-Reagan type support in his last year) and he has yet to campaign with Clinton along with Senator Elizabeth Warren and Vice President Joe Biden.
And finally, Clinton s strong polls come before her campaign and super PACs aligned with it have begun to drop millions of ads in swing states as Trump and the Republican Party remain woefully unprepared and underfunded.It could get much, much worse for Donald Trump.
And its only June.Featured image via Flickr