He had a gun that he stole during a burglary in a suburb of Milwaukee, along with 500 rounds of ammo.
The cop told Syville Smith to put the stolen gun down as he was fleeing from the them after a traffic stop.
He refused.
Now he s dead, and they re burning down the city of Milwaukee to honor him.A standoff between police and an angry crowd turned violent Saturday night in the hours after a Milwaukee police officer shot and killed an armed suspect during a foot chase on the city s north side.City police officials said two officers stopped two suspects in a car about 3:30 p.m.
The suspects then took off on foot.
During the pursuit, a six-year veteran of the department shot and killed a 23-year-old Milwaukee resident, who was carrying a semiautomatic handgun, police said.The officer was not hurt.During his midnight news conference, Barrett said the officer pursuing the 23-year-old man ordered him to drop his gun.
The man didn t and the officer fired several times, the mayor said.The man was hit twice, once in the chest and once in the arm.
He said police determined there were 23 rounds in the man s gun.Barrett said the officer was wearing a body camera and his understanding was that the camera was operational during the incident.
Milwaukee Journal SentinelHere are a few pictures we found on his Facebook account:As it turns out, Syville had a bit of a record:Court records show in February of 2015, Smith was charged with one felony count of first degree recklessly endangering safety and one misdemeanor count of possession of THC.
The charges were dismissed by prosecutors in November.August of 2015, Smith was charged with felony intimidation of a witness/person charged/felony.
That charge was dismissed by prosecutors in September.In July of 2014, Smith was charged with carrying a concealed weapon a misdemeanor charge.
He pleaded guilty in November, and was sentenced to serve one day in the House of Correction.In July of 2013, Smith was charged with felony retail theft intentionally taking $500 to $5,000 as party to a crime.
Prosecutors dismissed the charge in October.
Fox6NowHere s Syville just hanging out with a few upstanding friends:He seems to have a penchant for posing with guns.This man who says he is Mr. Smith s cousin also seemed to make a threat with this semi-intelligible rant.
Police might want to check that out.
h/t Weasel Zippers