Trump has been telling the whole world about how he ll make our economy boom.
He s going to cut taxes, but not cut Medicare or Social Security.
He tells blue collar workers that he ll renegotiate all our trade agreements to bring their jobs back.
He s going to balance the federal budget within seven years.
He has something for everyone, but no plan to pay for any of it.Or does he?Trump s senior economic adviser, Stephen Moore, held a hush-hush meeting with the vice president of the Council for National Policy, Bill Walton.
In that meeting, Moore revealed a lot of the ins and outs of the campaign s ideas for paying for his plan, and the whole thing smacks of far-right, free-market, trickle-down, anti-government conservatism unlike anything we ve seen before.Moore wants Trump to eliminate the Department of Education, Department of Commerce, and Department of Energy, just to start.
That will cost, oh, about 150,000 jobs or so.
Not to mention that, with the elimination of the Department of Commerce, we ll lose the U.S. Patent Office, the U.S. Census Bureau, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and more.
Trump believes, however, that this is the source of a lot of crony capitalism and corporate welfare.
So make it disappear!They also want to get rid of the Department of Education.
That, however, will cost us a uniform accreditation process for colleges and universities, along with everything having to do with grants and student loans.
No biggie, everyone can just get private student loans from their own banks, right?
Right.
Even if they re the poorest of the poor.
They d have to, seeing as how it s not likely Congress will pass universal post-secondary education anytime soon.It s Moore that s pushing Trump to do something about the Department of Energy.
including ending the energy subsidies.
Eliminating the entire department will probably cost us every national laboratory we have that deals with energy research and development.
This includes the famous Los Alamos National Laboratory, which was responsible for developing the atom bomb.
They also work on nuclear research, cryogenics, and more (maybe they ll just hand these over to private companies with profit motives).He actually said, in that meeting: I mean, my God, why do we need an Energy Department?
All the Energy Department has done in the last 25 years is make energy prices more expensive!
Or it was due, at least in part, to giving utilities to private enterprises with a profit motive, but hey, he can think what he wants.
They can, of course, move these agencies and offices to other departments, and maybe consolidate some, but the savings from doing this won t be near what they likely think.Moore believes in sending things like job training, health care and other medical services, back to the states.
The federal government would give the states block grants to administer this stuff.
Perhaps Trump would give them yuuuuuuuuuuuuuge block grants to administer all of the above things that will disappear with department elimination, too.And then they ll slowly go away as budgets get cut.
States are notorious for finding ways around the strings attached to block grants, which allows them to divert that money to other things.But these kinds of proposals aren t exactly new for Republicans.
What Moore also wants Trump to do is lift all (read: all) restrictions and regulations on mining, drilling and fracking.
And here we have it: The answer to which energy subsidies would get cut.
The ones going to renewables, because of course.Lifting the regulations on fossil fuel production would, in Moore s view, create 6 to 8 million new jobs.
Those jobs would increase tax revenue.
That, plus ending the subsidies to renewables so that fossil fuels no longer have competition, would bring a windfall of cash.Then Trump can pay for the tax cuts he plans to give his rich buddies.That is, of course, assuming that fossil fuel prices stay where they are, or rise.
The energy companies have to see a profit in this plan, or they won t play ball.
We can t stop the rest of the world from developing renewables and leaving us in the dust, and we can t stop OPEC from continuing to produce as much as they want to compete with us.Working as closely with a master businessman as Moore is, he should know that falling demand means falling prices.
The energy companies have already put some brakes on fracking here because of the glut of oil worldwide.
It s not as profitable to frack right now as they want.Plus, no regulation at all?
Yeah.
That ll work.
You watch.
It ll be great.
We ll have the best market.
Companies will become safer and more environmentally conscious because of competition.Or so the free-market capitalists wet dreams say.Moore really hopes that Trump will climb on board with all of this.
After all, Moore just wants to help his candidate make America great again, and clearly, this will do it.
It s foolproof!Featured image by Alex Wong/Getty Images