Donna Brazile lets it rip on the Hillary Clinton campaign in her new book about the 2016 election.
She s definitely not holding back in her scathing review of the Clinton operation during 2016.
She says she felt like a slave and felt disrespected by the Clinton campaign members.
What s the most interesting is that she had two people in mind when she was discussing replacing Hillary after the fainting spell on 9/11.
She says she just couldn t do it because she didn t want to let women down LOL!
Sure!SECRET DELIBERATIONS Donna Brazile held secret deliberations to discuss using her power as interim chair of the Democratic National Committee to replace Hillary Clinton as the party s nominee after the former first lady suffered a fainting spell on the campaign trail last September, she writes in her bombshell memoir.The Washington Post reports that Brazile reveals in her memoir that she considered replacing Clinton with then-Vice President Joe Biden or New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker because of the former secretary of state s anemic campaign.JOE BIDEN THE GROPERClinton s effort, which carried with it an odor of failure, was struggling to appeal to white working-class voters, writes Brazile in the book, Hacks: The Inside Story of the Break-ins and Breakdowns That Put Donald Trump in the White House.
The Post obtained an advance copy of the 288-page memoir, which will be released on Tuesday.REMEMBER THIS?Brazile, a longtime Democratic consultant who managed Al Gore s 2000 White House bid, says that she first became concerned about Clinton s health on Sept. 9, following an event in Manhattan.Brazile said that Clinton appeared wobbly on her feet with a rattled cough, according to The Post.As acting chairwoman of the DNC, Brazile had the power to replace the party s nominee if they became disabled.
Brazile reminded the Clinton campaign of that authority, which was included in the DNC charter.Clinton s fainting spell triggered talk inside Democratic circles that Brazile could exercise that authority.
She said that Biden s chief of staff contacted her a day after Clinton passed out.
Gee, I wonder what he wanted to talk to me about?
she said to herself, she recalls in her book.Brazile writes that she heavily considered appointing Biden but could not pull the trigger to replace the first female nominee for president.
Again and again I thought about Joe Biden, Brazile writes, according to The Post.
No matter my doubts and my fears about the election and Hillary as a candidate, I could not make good on that threat to replace her.
I thought of Hillary, and all the women in the country who were so proud of and excited about her.
I could not do this to them.
I FELT LIKE A SLAVE As one of her party s most prominent black strategists, Brazile also recounts fiery disagreements with Clinton s staffers including a conference call in which she told three senior campaign officials, Charlie Baker, Marlon Marshall and Dennis Cheng, that she was being treated like a slave.
I m not Patsey the slave, Brazile recalls telling them, a reference to the character played by Lupita Nyong o in the film, 12 Years a Slave.
Y all keep whipping me and whipping me and you never give me any money or any way to do my damn job.
I am not going to be your whipping girl!
READ MORE: WAPO