Three are known dead and many wounded when a shooting started at a home but moved to a school.
Many have been wounded BREAKING: At least 3 dead in shooting in Tehama Co. it started at a home and moved to the school.
Shooter shot and killed by police.
pic.twitter.com/xIKvyIxq4y Sara Stinson (@SaraStinsonNews) November 14, 2017HOW THIS STARTED: Brian Flint spoke with Action News Now and said that his truck was stolen and his roommate was shot and killed by the gunman.
He s dead.
He didn t make it, Flint said.
For his family and everything, I feel bad, and we ll be there for them.
MENTALLY ILL BUT IGNORED?
The roommates lived near the gunman, and Flint said that their neighbor had been shooting a lot of rounds recently.
The crazy thing is that the neighbor has been shooting a lot of bullets lately, hundreds of rounds, large magazines, Flint said.
We made it aware that this guy has been crazy, and he s been threatening us and everything.
I just feel like there maybe should have been more effort put into stopping things like this.
THREE KILLED MANY WOUNDED:Three people were killed in a shooting Tuesday morning that started at a home and moved to an elementary school in Tehama County, and the shooter was also killed by law enforcement, the sheriff s department said.Multiple shots were fired about 8 a.m. at Rancho Tehama School on the outskirts of Corning, northwest of Chico, Assistant Sheriff Phil Johnston said.
Three people were taken by ambulance and a fourth was airlifted to Enloe Medical Center in Chico, hospital officials said.
Three of them were children and one was an adult, KCRA s affiliate Action News Now reported.The conditions of the victims have not been released.
I know that we have (airlifted) a number of students, Johnston said.
I know that the school s been cleared.
I know that we have children that were attending school in a safe location at this time.
More than 100 law enforcement officers are investigating at least five scenes in and around the school, Johnston said.Read more: kcra