GOP Rep. Jim Jordan on Lou Dobbs: Listen you can t make this stuff up.
It gets worse each and every day.
What deep down scares me, if this actually happened the FBI had a concerted effort with the people at the top to go after one party s nominee to help the other party s nominee.
If that actually happened in the United States of America and everything each and every day points to more and more likely that that is what took place, it is sad for our country if that took place.
And I think it did based on everything I am seeing.
All the evidence points to that..@Jim_Jordan on Peter Strzok: "In case the American people, in his mind, are crazy enough to elect Donald Trump we need something else to stop Trump.
That's what this guy was thinking at the highest levels at the FBI."
pic.twitter.com/vNWUhDvDuE FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) December 14, 2017The Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein testified yesterday about the clear case of corruption and political bias in our intel agencies.
Changing Hillary s charge from grossly negligent to extremely careless is disturbing enough but it s clear that Jim Jordan knows this goes much deeper.
Hillary was protected by the political hacks in the intel agencies but a target was put on President Trump s back using the FISA court to open up spying on the him and those around him using a doctored up opposition research document that was never proven to be anywhere close to true The questioning from Jordan is well worth watching:BYRON YORK:An insurance policy?
From the Strzok-Page texts.
https://t.co/Ru5P1dWFXI pic.twitter.com/hiyApwb7Jg Byron York (@ByronYork) December 13, 2017BRET BAIER:Text-from Peter Strzok to Lisa Page (Andy is Andrew McCabe): "I want to believe the path u threw out 4 consideration in Andy's office-that there's no way he gets elected-but I'm afraid we can't take that risk.It's like an insurance policy in unlikely event u die be4 you're 40" Bret Baier (@BretBaier) December 13, 2017ANDREW MCCARTHY COMMENTED ON THE TWEET THAT EXPOSED THE AGENTS FOR THEIR POLITICAL BIAS:Obviously, this is not political banter.
Clearly indicates professional duties infected by political viewpoints, which is disqualifying.
I was going on the published accounts I'd seen, which didn't include this one.
Should follow my own advice to wait til all facts in.
https://t.co/fXk7GPnk5U Andrew C. McCarthy (@AndrewCMcCarthy) December 13, 2017