Republicans have a knack for making bad choices, but this one is a whopper.
One Kansas Republican thought it would be a good idea to put a post on social media featuring a quote from Adolf Hitler that she deemed profound.
Speaker Pro Tem Peggy Mast, R-Emporia, who happens to also be the No.
3 Republican in the Kansas House, posted the offensive quote to her Facebook page.Great quote from Hitler in the video, she wrote on Thursday morning, in a post that contained no video.
Please listen to it closely.
His words are profound!
Let s start using discernment.
Christie Kriegshauser, House Speaker Ray Merrick s chief of staff, failed to follow Mast s line of thinking.
Sorry, I m confused, Kriegshauser wrote in response to her first post.
What video and how is there a great quote from Hitler?
Although Mast did not return phone calls, she did take to Facebook yet again to, ahem, clarify what she meant by touting quotes from the leader of the Third Reich.
She claimed that she was not in any way agreeing with Hitler s words, and was just trying to compare him to Planned Parenthood.About an hour later, she added a link to an article from JulieRoys.com, a Christian blog, to her Facebook page.
The article contained a video of anti-abortion activist Gianna Jessen giving testimony to Congress regarding Planned Parenthood.
In her testimony, Jessen quoted Hitler and argued that he used the same kind of propaganda as the women s health provider.
The receptivity of the masses is very limited, their intelligence is small, but their power of forgetting is enormous.
In consequence of these facts, all effective propaganda must be limited to a very few points and must harp on these in slogans until the last member of the public understands what you want him to understand by your slogan, Hitler said in the quote.
Rabbi Moti Rieber, executive director of Kansas Interfaith Action, a group that fights against racism, was also unimpressed with Mast s post.
There s nothing profound, and there s no room in American politics for the words or thought of Adolph Hitler, Reiber said.In one of her Nazi-loving Facebook posts, Mast wrote: To clarify the intent of my previous post: Planned Parenthood has learned well the same tactics and deception used by Hitler regarding innocent lives.
I was making a connection between the ideology he used and the arguments made by Planned Parenthood.
In an email, Laura McQuade, president of Planned Parenthood Great Plains Votes, wrote that Planned Parenthood is a trusted health care provider for thousands of Kansans and we reject and condemn Representative Peggy Mast s offensive remarks.
Thankfully, Mast is not running for re-election.Featured image via YouTube