If Republicans thought a multibillion dollar 40 foot wall could keep Latinos from becoming American citizens, they may have completely overplayed their hand.
Knowing the stakes are four years of an anti-immigrant bigot in the White House has led to many Latino immigrants who may have been putting off getting their citizenship to get it in a hurry.
They want to ensure their voices are heard on election day.It should be noted that those seeking citizenship are mostly legal immigrants who are living in the United States.
But unlike Republican voters, they understand that Trump s anti-immigrant message means bigotry towards all minorities, not just the undocumented.
Indeed, many of Trump s supporters seem to have little clue that Latinos can be legal citizens.
So if it comes down to Trump vs. the Democratic candidate, the choice is clear.
As as one Latino resident told the New York Times while filling out her citizenship application: I want to vote so Donald Trump won t win.
He doesn t like us.
That s an understatement.You may remember that this is the exact opposite of what Republicans were hoping to achieve in 2016.
Following the disastrous 2012 election which saw Republicans getting hammered by nearly every demographic but old white men, the party had hoped to soften its stance towards the growing Latino population.
Instead, the toxic underbelly of the party rejected the cries for tolerance and ran head first towards the candidate they felt was most in line with white supremacy: Donald J. Trump.
A lot of people are opening their eyes because of all the negative stuff Donald Trump has brought, said Ms. Villegas s husband, Miguel Garf o, 30, who was born and raised in Colorado and came to the workshop here to help his wife and other family members become citizens this year.
His parents came from Mexico in the 1980s and worked hard all their lives, he said, helping him create a construction company in Denver that now employs 18 people.
Contrary to Mr. Trump s depiction, he said, none of his relatives have criminal records.
[Source]And in a move that highlights how Democrats are embracing immigrants where Republicans are rejecting them, the Obama administration is working closely with nonprofit groups around the country to help put immigrants on the path to citizenship.
This would seem like a good thing.
After all, Republicans have repeatedly said they don t mind immigrants as long as they go through the proper channels.
But that talking point seems to have gone up in flames.
Rather than celebrate the White House s efforts, it has outraged Republicans, who have worked hard to prevent as many people mostly among demographics that lean Democratic from voting as possible.Despite these signs that Republicans are again on the path to an epic shellacking on election day thanks to their message of bigotry, Trump has the delusional sense that Latinos love him.
He promised Republicans that he would do really well with Hispanics.
He s nothing if not painfully optimistic.Featured image via U.S.
Citizenship