Make no mistake about it America is next!
German police were forced to turn water cannons on far-left anti-fascists staging a violent counter demonstration at an anti-Islamisation rally on Sunday.Authorities initially tried to have the demonstration, organised by the anti-Islamisation group Hooligans Against Salafists (HOGESA), banned.
However, a court dismissed the motion and ruled that protesters would be allowed to gather at a fixed location, but not to march through the streets of Cologne, in western Germany.Police deployed 3,500 officers wearing riot gear, with water cannons and a helicopter at the ready, as they expected up to 23,000 to attend the demonstration and counter demonstration, Bild reports.Proceedings began at around 2:00pm, with the HOGESA demonstrators kettled on a dirt lot between Cologne s Deutz station and trade fair.
They were surrounded by the far left anti fascists chanting slogans like No human is illegal and Open the borders!
As the afternoon progressed the left wing counter demonstration became increasingly aggressive, with a number of anti-fascists attempting to cross police lines and reach the HOGESA demonstrators.
They were finally dispersed with the water cannons.Swiss police were forced to use water cannon on pro-mass migration anti-fascists in the city of Bern last weekend.
Demonstrators turned out to protest the anti-mass migration Swiss People s Party winning the national election, with some turning violent.A shocking new video provides more reason for non-Muslims in the West to worry about the ongoing refugee crisis in the Middle East.
A Muslim cleric and leader was recently explaining what was really going on with the mass Muslim migration when he got a bit too honest with the crowd.
The infidels want us to be tormented.
They want us to be humiliated.
The Koran says: The Jews and the Christians will never be pleased with you, but we will never follow their religion.
This dark night will be over, and soon, we will trample them underfoot, Allah willing.Germany is not a compassionate country that wishes to absorb refugees from Syria and Iraq, and Palestinian refugees in the Levant and elsewhere.
Europe has become old and decrepit, and needs human reinforcement.No force is more powerful than the human force of us Muslims.
Oh, Muslims, the Germans say, in their economic reports, that they need 50,000 young workers.
Now, they have got 20,000, and they want another 30,000 and more, to work in their factories.They are not motivated by compassion for the Levant, its people, and its refugees.
Throughout Europe, all the hearts are infused with hatred toward Muslims.
They wish that we were dead.
But they have lost their fertility, so they look for fertility in our midst.We will give them fertility!
We will breed children with them, because WE SHALL CONQUER THEIR COUNTRIES whether you like it or not, oh Germans, oh Americans, oh French, oh Italians and all those like you.Take the refugees!
We shall soon collect them in the name of the coming Caliphate.
We will say to you: These are our sons.
Send them, or we will send our armies to you.A new video appears to show Islamists marching in the German city of Hannover while at least two girls look on and express their fears.https://youtu.be/-VJyKRwQHHMVia: Breitbart News