Our children are at risk, people!
Fortunately, there is one woman who is willing to take a brave stand and confront this danger head-on Trump education secretary pick Betsy DeVos.
On Tuesday, supergenius DeVos was asked a very simple question: Do you think guns have any place in or around schools?
Now, most of us would have answered that question with a simple no, but not DeVos.
She sees a danger the rest of us are missing: bears.But never fear!
Trump would never appoint someone who is completely unqualified to any position.
Sure, she doesn t know that the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act is a thing, but DeVos has the perfect answer to this hidden and severe threat against our children a whole bunch of motherf*cking guns.DeVos says the decision to allow guns in schools is best left to locales and states to decide because bear attacks are apparently a thing, and we wouldn t want students undefended while Yogi searches their school for a pic-a-nic basket, would we?
I will refer back to Senator Enzi and the school he was talking about in Wyoming, DeVos said.
I would imagine that there is probably a gun in the schools to protect from potential grizzlies.
As it turns out, Wyoming schools do not keep a pile of guns around to deal with an ever-looming threat of bear attacks.UPDATE: Teacher at Wyoming school Betsy DeVos said needed guns to shoot "grizzlies" says that's "absolutely" untruehttps://t.co/dWneudD0Tf pic.twitter.com/oVb8kEdAgL Tom McKay (@thetomzone) January 18, 2017But, hey, at least the folks on Twitter are having fun:Screenshot from the National Geographic special Betsy DeVos watched to prove grizzly bears are a threat to schools pic.twitter.com/c3ATfOdMJy Guy Fi-hairy (@ih8_mayo) January 18, 2017Betsy DeVos took @StephenAtHome very literally.
#GrizzlyBears #DeVosHearing pic.twitter.com/OKpsE3UQNk FooseBallsOFire (@FooseBallsOFire) January 18, 2017We can't tell you how many times in the past year we've had a lockdown because #grizzlybears.
?
#NotMySOE #StopDeVos #DeVosHearing Wa Badass Teachers A (@WaBATs_) January 18, 2017Maybe grizzly bears can home school your kids.
Grizzlies aren't that bad and they're quite good at quadratic equations.
#DeVosHearing Imani Gandy (@AngryBlackLady) January 18, 2017Betsy DeVos said we need to have guns in schools to protect children from grizzly bears.
What is wrong with these people?
#DeVosHearing pic.twitter.com/eLeagUHrDo nnydi g ?
(@bennydiego) January 18, 2017DeVos: Guns in schools so kids can protect themselves from grizzly bears.
200+ school shootings since 2013, 0 grizzly attacks.
Peter Ambler (@PeterMAmbler) January 18, 2017#BetsyDeVos says we need guns in schools to protect kids from grizzly bears.Not even kidding.
#DeVosHearing pic.twitter.com/SIeTT0pusL Chad R. MacDonald (@ChadMac19) January 18, 2017Guys, I'm very worried about grizzly bears in Ohio's public schools.
John Scalzi (@scalzi) January 18, 2017DeVos won't say guns shouldn't be in schools.Because sometimes kids need to be defended against grizzly bears.SERIOUSLY SHE SAID THAT S Dynarski (@dynarski) January 18, 2017The Bible teaches us that God uses bears to kill children who disrespect elders.
(2 Kings 2:23-24) Why is Betsy DeVos against God's plan?
Alexandra Erin (@alexandraerin) January 18, 2017I'm confused.
Betsy DeVos wants to bring God into schools but also guns because I guess God isn't powerful enough to stop grizzly bears.
Sarcasticsapien (@Sarcasticsapien) January 18, 2017COMMITTEE: Yes or no.
Would you enforce a school-wide fight to the death like Battle Royale?
DEVOS: (breathing heavy) oh god yes Mike Drucker (@MikeDrucker) January 18, 2017Betsy DeVos answering questions at the senate hearing was like listening to a 4 year old try to explain what happens while you're asleep.
Johnny Taylor, Jr. (@hipsterocracy) January 18, 2017We need a Secretary of Education that will work hard to end all of the grizzly bear on bear crime in schools.OHHHHH BETSY DEVOS!
Tony Posnanski (@tonyposnanski) January 18, 2017Asked if she would support Trump s plan to allow guns in schools, hospitals, day cares, and anywhere else a federal ban on gun-free zones would allow people to bring their firearms, DeVos explained that her heart bleeds and is broken for those families that have lost any individual due to gun violence.
She did not say whether or not this includes the children who will be slaughtered as a result of Trump s policies.Watch what is quite possibly the dumbest thing you will hear from DeVos until the next time she opens her mouth:Featured image via Getty Images (Drew Angerer)/screengrab