Now that he s president-elect, Donald Trump has begun turning his attention to his transition, as well as beginning to build up his cabinet.
It s early right now, but sources have told Politico who is in line for some top positions.
If you weren t already panicking just from his win last night, now would be a good time to start.Perhaps most alarming are his potential picks for Secretary of DHS.
Politico reports that Sheriff David Clarke is said to be a major contender.
This is the Milwaukee sheriff who made a name for himself calling for pitchforks and torches and armed rebellion if Trump lost.But he seems to be the main contender, not the sole contender.
There s also a possibility that Bridgegate Kingpin Chris Christie could be in line for the position, as could Rudy Giuliani.
Putting either of these people in charge of agencies like U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the FBI, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and more, could potentially be very damaging.For Secretary of State, we have John Bolton, former U.N. ambassador and senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.
Bolton was a controversial figure at the U.N., and he championed George W. Bush s insistence on one-sided foreign policy.
Fan-bloody-tastic.Newt Gingrich could also be in line for this position, as could Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee.Trump is rumored to want to put his own finance chief, who s a former Goldman-Sachs exec, in as Secretary of the Treasury.
Besides the blatant cronyism, a Wall Street executive in a cabinet position goes against everything Trump claimed about Hillary and her ties to the banks.Rudy Giuliani is rumored to be considered for a host of positions, including Attorney General, White House Chief of Staff, Secretary of Homeland Security, and Director of National Intelligence/CIA Director.
Giuliani is about as erratic and unreasonable as Trump the most benign position in this list is probably Chief of Staff.Chris Christie may also be up for Attorney General.Trump s top pick for Secretary of Energy is Continental Resources CEO Harold Hamm.
This guy has shaped a lot of Trump s ideas on energy policy, which includes gutting renewable energy and escalating fossil fuel use.For Secretary of the Interior, the leading candidate right now is Forrest Lucas, the founder of Lucas Oil.
An oil executive and a vocal animal rights opponent is such a great pick to protect our lands and our wildlife.
We can probably say goodbye to national parks, the endangered species list, and more if he s chosen.Other candidates include none other than Queen Drunken Airhead herself, Sarah Palin, as well as Trump s own son, Donald Trump Jr. No nepotism there at all.Trump wants a business leader, a.k.a.
a CEO, for Labor Secretary.
Interestingly enough, though, the current commissioner of the EEOC, Victoria Lipnic, is said to be a frontrunner for this job.
She s one of Obama s picks and supports things like the Equal Pay Act.
She wants to get rid of the EEOC s pay data collection system, though.Trump said early on that he wanted to eliminate the EPA, but has since modified that position.
However, he wants to put noted climate skeptic Myron Ebell in charge of the agency responsible for ensuring we have clean air and clean water, so he might as well eliminate it.Ben Carson.
Nuff said.Politico has their full list, and CNN also has a list.
It s very early yet, and it s true that not every single person Trump is considering would be a bad choice.
For instance, he wants someone who s already got a lot of experience with Veterans Affairs to head up the VA.
However, many of his potential picks are rampant with cronyism and just plain sheer idiocy and cluelessness.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images