It s no secret that Donald Trump has a hard time with not only attracting minority voters, but also the votes of millenials that have grown up in a less racist, more diverse and accepting country than the America that Trump wants to enforce if he wins this election.But there are still young voters that are attracted to Trump, like 18-year-old Jake Anantha from Charlotte, North Carolina.
Rather than be thankful for Anantha s support at a time when Trump is basically dying in the polls, the Trump campaign decided to kick this young Republican out of a rally on Thursday because he wasn t white.Jake was more than excited to attend Trump s event and give Trump his first primary vote.
He was even wearing a Trump shirt to the rally, but his joy quickly left him when he was removed by police from the Charlotte Convention Center because the Trump campaign had accused him of being a protester.
Jake s only offense was having dark skin, according to Ramesh Anantha, Jake s father.Ramesh complained that as a young person of color, his son should have been been treated with respect especially since Trump s rally was about supporting minorities.
Ramesh, whose parents immigrated from India, said, It s unbelievably ironic and argues that his son should have been looked at as a perfect Trump supporter.
He should have been somebody they re putting up on stage.
Screenshot of Jake being removed by securityAccording to the young supporter himself, this incident has changed his mind about supporting Trump, now that his campaign s true colors have shown.
In an interview on Friday, Jake said that initially, he didn t mind Trump s brash campaign: When I saw him on TV, I personally didn t mind his rhetoric.
I defended him.
When people called him a racist, I said he s a critic of our flawed immigration system.
He s strong on Islamic terrorism.
Jake had gotten to the rally early and was able to get a position near the stage.
He was just standing there innocently minding his own business when security tapped him on the shoulder and tried to escort him out.
They said, We know who you are.
You ve been at many other rallies.
Jake tried to object and plea that it had been his first Trump rally and was not a protester, but police removed him anyway.
The event had been private, so Trump s staff had full control over who could attend and Jake was apparently not white enough.
Forced to stay outside the Convention Center or risk being arrested, Jake watched white people enter the rally effortlessly.
He said: I thought (Trump) was for all people.
I don t believe he is for all people anymore.
Why are all these white people allowed to attend and I m not?
The Trump campaign has failed to apologize to Jake, and the young voter says that this incident has made him change his mind about Trump.
He is now planning to vote for Libertarian Gary Johnson.Jake was not the only minority to be ejected from this event.
Rose Hamid, a Muslim who was peacefully protesting by handing out flower pens, was also removed when Jake was taken out of the rally.
You can watch a video of Jake and Rose being removed below:Featured image via Mark Wallheiser / Getty Images