A Republican New York Times writer just jumped ship from the GOP to become a Democrat because of Republican cowardice to unendorse Donald Trump.Josh Barro, who is also the senior editor at Business Insider, penned a column explaining why he switched parties and he did not hold back.
The most important thing we have learned this year is that, when the Republican Party was hijacked by a dangerous fascist who threatens to destroy the institutions that make America great and free, most Republicans up and down the organizational chart stood behind him and insisted he ought to be president, Barro began before focusing on Republicans who support Trump despite how dangerous he is to our country.Specifically, he called out Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, and House Speaker Paul Ryan for standing by Trump anyway for reasons of strategy, careerism, or cowardice.
Referring to them as cowards and scoundrels, Barro points to these three as the primary reason he has left the party he grew up supporting.
They are taking an action that risks the destruction of the American republic to advance their personal interests, Barro wrote.
I can only conclude from the available evidence that they love their careers more than they love America.
And they are why I quit the Republican Party this week.
Barro explained that he has been a Republican for a long time because he didn t think it was ridiculous to be in a party that I disagreed with on a lot of national issues.
He had hoped to help bring change to the Republican Party from within, to improve ideas at the margin in the long run.
But what this election has made clear is that policy is not the most important problem with the Republican Party, Barro said.Indeed, Republicans are only really interested in power, which is why Republican leaders have thrown in their lot with Trump.
They are hoping Trump will be a puppet who will pass all of their agenda, which would basically burn the government to the ground and usher in a completely ideologically pure conservative government.Barro went on to describe the fundamental vulnerability of the GOP.Because of the fact-free environment so many of its voters live in, and because of the anti-Democrat hysteria that had been willfully whipped up by so many of its politicians, it was possible for the party to be taken over by a fascist promising revenge.And because there are only two major parties in the United States, and either of the parties nominees can become president, such a vulnerability in the Republican Party constitutes a vulnerability in our democracy.
I can t be a part of an organization that creates that kind of risk, Barro said.Considering part of the Republican agenda includes voter suppression and stripping civil rights away from women and minorities, Barro is spot on with his observation.He has also concluded that while moderate Republicans may try to wrestle the soul of the party back from the conspiracy nuts and proto-fascists that have taken it over, he believe they will fail and he refuses to stick around to watch.
Barro is definitely not alone.
Many Republicans have been jumping ship because of Donald Trump.
And on Election Day, we will find out just exactly how much the Republican Party has been damaged by this exodus.
Because if Trump loses by a landslide and down-ticket GOP candidates get their asses handed to them, it will be such a disaster for the party that they will have no choice.
They will have to change or go extinct.Featured Image: baystateconservativenews.com