These videos, by James O Keefe and friends at Project Veritas bust the corrupt nature of Hillary Clinton s campaign, the Democratic Party and the underbelly of their operations wide open.
James O Keefe has taken a sledge hammer to this well-organized criminal machine.
If American voters are not shocked to the core by the level of corruption used to elect Hillary, they no longer have a conscience .
Watch Bob Creamer admit to undercover agent for Project Veritas that Obama is trying to make America more like GUN-FREE Britain at the 15 min.
mark.Bob Creamer on Obama: He s a pro I do a lot of work with the White House on their issues, helping to run issue campaigns that they ve been involved in like immigration reform campaigns, for the health care bill, for the ah to try to make America more like Britain on Gun issues.
In the effort to prove the credibility of the undercover donor featured in the videos and to keep the investigation going, Project Veritas Action made the decision to donate twenty thousand dollars to Robert Creamer s effort.
Project Veritas Action had determined that the benefit of this investigation outweighed the cost.
And it did.
In an unexpected twist, AUFC president Brad Woodhouse, the recipient of the $20,000, heard that Project Veritas Action was releasing undercover videos exposing AUFC s activities.
He told a journalist that AUFC was going to return the twenty thousand dollars.
He said it was because they were concerned that it might have been an illegal foreign donation.
Project Veritas Action was pleased but wondered why that hadn t been a problem for the month that they had the money.One of the key figures in O Keefe s report is convicted felon and husband of Rep. Jan Schakowsky ( D-IL), Robert Creamer who oversaw a check-kiting scheme so elaborate that his employees followed a written manual complete with detailed instructions on when and where to float checks totaling millions of dollars.As it turns out, convicted felon Robert Creamer was a frequent visitor of the White House.
Between 11/21/2009 and 6/24/2016, Robert Creamer appears to have visited the White House 342 times, 340 times as Robert Creamer and twice as Bob Creamer .
He logged in times and was either a guest of Barack Obama or his lovely wife Michelle.
One can only wonder what business Michelle had with this criminal.
Hmmm