Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren continued to throw haymakers at Donald Trump on Wednesday.In response to her relentless slams against him on Twitter, the only counter punch Trump could muster was to refer to Warren as goofy.
I hope corrupt Hillary Clinton chooses goofy Elizabeth Warren as her running mate, Trump tweeted.
I will defeat them both.
He also demanded to see proof of her Native American heritage.
Let s properly check goofy Elizabeth Warren s records to see if she is Native American, he wrote.
I say she s a fraud!
And he used goofy a third time in yet another tweet.
Goofy Elizabeth Warren, Hillary Clinton s flunky, has a career that is totally based on a lie, he continued.
She is not Native American.
That little Twitter-tantrum came three days after Warren called out the presumptive Republican presidential nominee on Tuesday.Trump literally waited until Friday to respond and Warren noticed.
I called out @realDonaldTrump on Tuesday.
45 million saw it.
He s so confident about his counter punch he waited until Friday night.
Lame.
I called out @realDonaldTrump on Tuesday.
45 million saw it.
He s so confident about his counter punch he waited until Friday night.
Lame.
Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) May 7, 2016Warren absolutely buried Trump on Twitter and she continued piling it on during an interview with Policy Mic on Wednesday when she was asked about Trump calling her goofy.
Really?
That s the best you could come up with?
Warren quipped.
I thought Donald Trump said he was a guy who was good with words.
She then went on to describe what the economy would be like under a Trump presidency.
I think it will be more of a government that works for a thin slice at the top, and a government that leaves everyone else behind.
And the problem with that is it s not just government.
Government becomes the tool then to have the economy work that way.
So increasingly we live in a world where the economy works for a narrower and narrower slice of America.
Here s the video via YouTube.Warren is right to laugh at Trump.
After all, he s the biggest joke in American politics right now.
But, he s also dangerous as Warren pointed out.
And not just to the economy.
Trump has no foreign policy experience and has indicated that he would use the military and torture rather than diplomacy to achieve American goals overseas.Furthermore, Trump is also a threat to civil rights and a free press and brings no real substantive ideas to the table.
He is nothing more than hateful warmonger who would create an economy to help himself and his wealthy friends at the expense of the rest of us.That s why we need people like Elizabeth Warren in the Senate and on the presidential ticket to offer Americans a real choice.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images