Chuck Woolery wants America to return to the 1950s when liberals were punished for exercising free speech and the minimum wage was $1.00 an hour.During an appearance on Fox & Friends on Sunday the former Wheel of Fortune host whined about Matt Damon s commencement speech in which the actor addressed the need for a higher minimum wage and blasted Republican nominee Donald Trump.Woolery responded by accusing Damon of being a communist and suggested punishing liberals who express their support of anything deemed a communist idea by the right-wing.
In the 50s in Hollywood if you spoke for communism, you were blackballed, Woolery said.
In the 90s and 2000s in Hollywood if you speak for communism, you re rewarded for it.
But if you speak against communism, you re blackballed.
And that s blatantly not true since conservative actors like Gary Senise and Tom Selleck have both starred in movies and great television programs.
Also, since when is free speech a communist thing?Woolery then attacked workers who make minimum wage by suggesting that those workers don t work hard and are just starting out and don t have families to support.
Most people don t realize that it s not a good thing, it s a bad thing, Woolery claimed about raising the minimum wage.
I think it s the liberals job to take the simple and make it as complex as possible.
I think it s the conservatives job and we don t do a very good job of it to take the complex and make it as simple as possible.
The things that sound really good this knee-jerk reaction to 15 bucks an hour my son is 20 years old, he would love to make $15 an hour.
You ve got to earn your way in this world, and if it costs them $15 a hour and you re a small business and it ruins the business, what good does it do?
he continued.
These are people who are starting off.
They re not people who have families by and large.
Here s the video via YouTube:Again, Woolery doesn t know what the hell he is talking about.
Not only is raising the minimum wage good for the overall economy, it strengthens businesses and actually does help the families of these workers.According to the Center of Economic and Policy Research, the average age of a minimum wage worker is 35-years-old, far from someone who is just starting off.
Indeed, the Department of Labor says that women would especially benefit from a much needed minimum wage hike.More than half of those who would benefit are women about a third of them have children.
In fact, of the 2.8 million working single parents that would benefit, more than 80 percent are women.
And research shows that raising the minimum wage reduces child poverty among female-headed households.Raising the minimum wage would immediately impact these families and the local economies they live in.
The cost of living has gone up along with the bloated income of wealthy assholes like Chuck Woolery.
Therefore, minimum wage workers should see an increase and that increase would definitely be over $10 an hour if the minimum wage had been tied to inflation since the 1960s.
And if you re a woman, you only make 77 cents for every dollar a man makes, which makes things worse.Wage hikes also boost worker morale, which makes businesses stronger.
A happy workforce that is taken care of by their employer means a healthier business and a healthier community.
Woolery might understand that if he hadn t spent his career working as a game show host.
There are people in this country who work far harder than he does and they only make minimum wage.
Also, minimum wage is lowest in red states so Woolery just insulted millions of conservatives.Featured Image: Screenshot