Buckle up.
Elizabeth Warren, continuing her crusade for the little guy, wrote a letter to FBI director James Comey over their transparency with Hillary s emails, because they didn t have that same transparency when investigating the big banks.
In fact, they usually don t release anything when there s no indictment.
They changed their standards for releasing information with Hillary, and Warren wants to know why that same standard can t be used on Wall Street executives.
Your recent actions with regard to the investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton provide a clear precedent for releasing additional information about the investigation of the parties responsible for the financial crisis These new standards present a compelling case for public transparency around the fate of the FCIC referrals.
If Secretary Clinton s email server was of sufficient interest to establish a new FBI standard of transparency, then surely the criminal prosecution of those responsible for the 2008 financial crisis should be subject to the same level of transparency.
She s more than right; if Hillary s emails are of sufficient interest to release as much information as possible, then why isn t the information on those who have been proven to cause harm to millions of Americans by crashing the economy of the same interest?
It should actually be of bigger interest than the witch hunt against Hillary.The FBI initially released information in response to several FOIA requests from the press, and sent more material to Congress.
However, they didn t send over every last, little, tiny bit.
The chairman of the House Oversight Committee, Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), incensed that they d spurn him like that, subpoenaed the full file earlier this week.Republicans all over Congress are pitching a hell of a tantrum over the FBI not releasing every last scrap of paper, but they really couldn t care less that the FBI didn t release anything after the Department of Justice decided not to prosecute eleven bankers that had a hand in destroying the economy.
Why?Simple.
When it s Hillary Clinton, everything has to be changed.
She must be guilty of something; Republicans and Hillary-haters know things.
When it s people who actually harmed America, though?
Meh.
Not that important why nobody was prosecuted.
Here s hoping that Warren s letter has an impact on Comey, because we deserve to know exactly why bankers weren t prosecuted.Featured image by Jessica Kourkounis/Getty Images