In a statement that was attempting to appeal to the left and to the worst conspiracy theorists on the right, Donald Trump accused his female opponent of raping the country with a trade deal.In a campaign rally in Pennsylvania, the GOP frontrunner ranted about free trade agreements.
He wants to force Canada and Mexico to renegotiate NAFTA and he wants to renegotiate the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP).Trump s words were tailored to his audience, many of whom have personally suffered from the collapse of the American steel industry: I m going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers.
And I don t mean just a little bit better, I mean a lot better, Trump said in Pennsylvania.If Canada and Mexico do not agree to renegotiate the pact, Trump said he would notify them under the agreement s terms that America intends to withdraw from the deal.
Source: Huffington PostOf course, most of the steel industry has moved to China, a country with whom we have no trade agreement, but why let inconvenient facts get in the way of a good narrative.In yet another speech, this time in Ohio, Trump spoke of the TTP, calling it a death blow for American manufacturing.
He said it was just a continuing rape of our country.
Trump is right in that the trade deals have been bad for the American people and that they should be renegotiated, but Trump s claim that he s a savior for American trade is disingenuous.
Much of Trump s fortune has been built on the backs of those in foreign countries.
In other words, the Trump of today would probably not have been possible without the trade agreements he loves to criticize.
AFL-CIO s President Richard Trumka agrees: Trump embodies everything that is wrong with our current trade policy.
He has consistently sent American jobs overseas to line his own pockets.
Beyond that, though, is something more insidious and sexist.
It s long been a Republican meme that Bill Clinton is a rapist and that Hillary Clinton is somehow complicit in these crimes (they aren t actually crimes because no one has ever found any criminal activity).
Trump may or may not choose to be overt in rattling off the hundreds of Clinton conspiracy theories, but you can bet he ll continue with the more subliminal accusations, like one of rape.
Ironic, since he s been accused of the same.Featured image via Jeff Swensen at Getty Images.