Mitt Romney tried to confront Donald Trump head-on, but in the end, he was brutally humiliated just like Jeb Bush before him.Earlier today, Romney spoke out against Trump in a scathing speech that lasted for 20 minutes.
Here s what I know.
Donald Trump is a phony, a fraud, Romney declared in an attempt to convince voters in other states to deny the Republican front-runner the nomination.
He s playing the members of the American public for suckers.
He gets a free ride to the White House and all we get is a lousy hat.
Romney hypocritically criticized Trump for not releasing tax returns, something the 2012 Republican nominee refused to do himself four years ago well into his race against President Obama, who went on to win a second term.Then he attacked Trump s foreign policy, focusing in particularly on his plan to ban all Muslims from entering the United States.
Mr. Trump s bombast is already alarming our allies and fueling the enmity of our enemies.
Insulting all Muslims will keep many of them from fully engaging with us in their urgent fight against ISIS, and for what purpose?
Muslim terrorists would only have to lie about their religion to enter the country.
Romney ended by urging Republicans to vote for someone who can beat Hillary Clinton.Here s the video of Romney s speech via YouTube:Well, it didn t take long for Donald Trump to fire back, and his response was devastating.Right out of the gate Trump reminded Romney that he lost in 2012 to President Obama and was a terrible candidate overall.It then Trump proceeded to humiliate Romney even further by telling of how the former Republican nominee begged for his endorsement.
I don t know what happened to him.
You can see how loyal he is.
He was begging for my endorsement.
I could have said Mitt drop to your knees.
He would have dropped to his knees.
Sounds like a pretty low blow to me, but it s exactly what Trump has done to destroy every Republican rival standing in his way thus far.Here s the video via YouTube:Featured Image: Screenshot