Ted Cruz was approached at a campaign stop in New Hampshire and asked to give a response to Trump s latest attack, in which he calls Cruz a Canadian anchor baby.
In and of itself, the question was not that fruitful but what is important is how Cruz handled it.
Basically, all it told us was that Ted Cruz is great at lying (not like we didn t already know that).Senator Cruz looked right at the camera and after giving out a jolly laugh, said: I like Donald.
And he s welcome to say whatever he likes.
I like and respect him.
That s all I got to say and right now its up to the voters to decide.
He likes and respects him?
How can that even be believable for a second?
He didn t even say it sarcastically.
No wonder nobody likes Ted Cruz; he doesn t even respect himself with the truth.While it s commendable that Ted Cruz would not resort to any further attacks, he s doing a greater disservice by lending further legitimacy to a guy that deserves ZERO political respect from the voters.
And he didn t even mean it.
Next thing you know this clip will be used in another campaign ad by Trump as proof that he s a respectable guy.
Yet he s nowhere close to it.
Ted Cruz needs to grow some balls.While it is true that Cruz and Trump had a bromance before Ted Cruz started rising in the polls, whatever love and affection they had for each other effectively ended when Donald began attacking him below the belt in every way imaginable.
How can Ted Cruz respect someone who just a few weeks ago referred to him a nasty guy.
The full quote is much, much worse than that: Look, the truth is, he s a nasty guy.
He was so nice to me.
I mean, I knew it.
I was watching.
I kept saying, Come on Ted.
Let s go, okay.
But he s a nasty guy.
Nobody likes him.
Nobody in Congress likes him.
Nobody likes him anywhere once they get to know him.
He s a very - he s got an edge that s not good.
You can t make deals with people like that and it s not a good thing.
It s not a good thing for the country.
Very nasty guy.
Video of Trump calling Ted Cruz an anchor baby in Canada https://t.co/lI6wle9E2b Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) January 29, 2016Ted Cruz doesn t respect Donald Trump; he just doesn t want to deal with any more attacks from him.
He can t stand up for himself, pure and simple.Featured image via screen capture.