Ana Navarro is a well-known Republican strategist, but thanks to Trump she s having a hard time defending her support of the GOP in this election.
This couldn t have been more apparent when the CNN contributor sat on a panel and slammed Trump for his horrendous attacks on Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the Gold Star parents who gave a speech at Hillary Clinton s Democratic National Convention.As John Avlon started a discussion about how the Republican Party would never be able to unify around Trump thanks to the onslaught of controversies their nominee has created for himself, Navarro couldn t hold back and went off.
She called his campaign a train wreck whose wheels are coming off , and bashed him for being such a disgrace that the GOP and media have been forced to ignore any possible smears on Hillary Clinton because Trump s hateful feuds with innocent people like the Khans were dominating everything.
She said: Listen, Hillary Clinton had a disastrous interview on Fox on Sunday.
We should be talking about that.
But the Trump surrogate, Mr. Trump himself, have chosen to continue a fight with the gold star family and parents of Captain Khan.
And that has put all my focus, all my outrage.
I have no more outrage to give this week.
I am so offended by the idea of an attack on the mother and father who buried their son because of service to country and sacrifice to country.
Navarro even went on to say that her many of her colleagues would not be voting for Trump in November.
She said: It s not panic.
It s sadness.
It s resignation.
It s heartbreak.
Later in the interview, Navarro commented on the fact that Trump has refused to endorse prominent Republicans like Paul Ryan, John McCain and Kelly Ayotte, likely because they have called him out and distanced themselves from his disrespectful comments.
Navarro praised these GOPers for not getting Trump s support, calling it a badge of honor : Thank God Trump is not endorsing them.
That means they won t owe him a thing As far as I m concerned, Trump [not endorsing them] good for them.
Badge of honor!
You can watch Navarro go off on Trump s most recent campaign disaster below:By the way, Navarro s Twitter feed is definitely worth checking out she regularly rips Trump and it s hilarious!TwitterTwitterTwitterTwitter Featured image via video screen capture