Is it really possible to describe Donald Trump with just one word?
Certainly a few come to mind.
Try and pick just one, though.
Which one comes to mind first?The conservative media outlet The Blaze trolled a Bernie Sanders event recently and posted a video of Bernie supporters describing both Bernie and Donald Trump with just one word.
It wasn t exactly a hit piece; all of Sanders supporters responding enthusiastically for their candidate while completely lambasting Trump.
Not much news there.
All it did was tell us what we already know, Bernie supporters don t exactly think Trump is all that amazing.First, here are the words most commonly used to depict Bernie Sanders: Inspirational.
Consistent.
Amazing.
Awesome.
Equality.
Honest.
Logical.
Compare that to what they think of Trump: Disgusting.
Dishonest.
**shole.
Racist.
Bigot.
Evil.
Insane.
Sounds about right.It really just looks like The Blaze likes Bernie Sanders events.
Maybe they re #feelingthebern, too?
They seem to go there a lot.
Although, they didn t particularly like a video of Sanders mocking Republicans Family Values during a speech he gave in Iowa on Friday.Here s what Bernie had to say about Republican s so-called values: They love families.
Can t stop talking about families.
When Republicans talk about family values what they are saying is that no woman in this room in this country, should have the right to control their own body.
I DISAGREE.
The race is tight and it s anybody s guess as to who will win Iowa.
Bernie s campaign is counting on younger voters to help win the day for him he does have far more of them than any other candidate from either party, after all.
When these very same voters get older there will be a dramatic paradigm shift to the left on issues but as of right now it s not clear if the younger vote will help Bernie defeat Hillary.
Perhaps it s fitting that we get more of their opinions to see where this country is heading, though.
It certainly isn t in the way of Donald Trump.Featured image from screen capture