The answer is anyone but YOU.
Did you know that American taxpayers gave the U.N. general fund $654,778,938 in 2015?
Did you also know that Obama committed an astounding $3 billion to a new U.N.
Climate fund run by communist and terrorist nations.
It gets better, we just gave Africa $36.5 million to train African doctors because the World Health Organization deemed it necessary.
The NIH then gives the $36.5 million in American money to whomever the WHO wants it given to.
Do you see how this works?
The National Institutes of Health is a virtual slush fund for anyone and everyone in the world with a massive budget of $30 BILLION.
The system of giving is a perfect setup for the REDISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH from the West.
I ve heard different pundits call for the defunding of the National Institutes of Health and it s evident they re not being monitored.
How do I know this?
All you need to do is go to their website or read the news and you ll be shocked at the ridiculous studies they fund with YOUR MONEY!
Like the one where they got monkeys drunk:GOLDEN HAMMER: FEDS SPEND MILLIONS TO STUDY DRUNKEN MONEYS, PILOTS AND STUDENTSIt ll make your head explode!
Like a good lap dog, the U.S. is dedicating $36.5 million to help Africa train doctors because the famously corrupt United Nations determined that the continent has a terrible shortage of medical personnel and faculty.That means Uncle Sam must come to the rescue.
The latest Africa allocation is in addition to the eye-popping $654,778,938 that American taxpayers gave the U.N. general fund in 2015 and billions more to the peacekeeping budget and other U.N. organizations.
The U.S. has always been the single largest contributor to the world body, which is well known as a pillar of fraud and mismanagement.
Even the U.N. s Human Rights Council, also funded primarily by American taxpayers, is a huge joke.
A few years ago Judicial Watch reported that the U.N. awarded a genocidal warlord indicted by an international court for crimes against humanity a seat on its laughable human rights council.
Last year President Obama committed an astounding $3 billion to a new U.N.
Climate fund run by communist and terrorist nations.Now the World Health Organization (WHO), the U.N. s public health arm, has determined that sub-Saharan Africa is in desperate need of medical personnel.
The region bears almost a quarter of the global disease burden yet has only 3% of the world s health workforce, according to WHO.
So this week, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the nation s medical research agency, kicked in the $36.5 million to train Africans.
The NIH doles out north of $31 billion annually to hundreds of thousands of researchers at thousands of universities and institutions around the globe.
A few years ago President Obama launched an NIH program to boost the number of minorities in biomedical research and he appointed the nation s first ever Chief Officer for Scientific Workforce Diversity to mastermind a multi-million-dollar effort.The new Africa allocation will help the region strengthen medical school curricula, upgrade community-based training sites and expand communications technology, according to an NIH announcement.
Research must play an integral part in generating sustainable, quality health care in sub-Saharan Africa, which is the ultimate goal, NIH Director Francis Collins said.
It is critical that we increase research capacity so Africans can carry out locally relevant investigations themselves, and develop the necessary expertise in areas such as bioethics, informatics, environmental science, and genomics.
That will empower their participation in international collaborations.
Read more: JW