Donald Trump made an odd statement about Hillary Clinton during a campaign rally in Florida on Friday night.
Trump told his supporters that Clinton could shoot somebody and not be prosecuted for the crime.
She is being so protected.
She could walk into this arena right now and shoot somebody with 20,000 people watching right smack in the middle of the heart and she wouldn t be prosecuted, Trump said.Trump was commenting on the federal government s decision not to prosecute Clinton after she was investigated for using a private email server.
Taken on its own, the comment doesn t appear to be too controversial, keeping in mind this is the live action version of Trump speaking at a rally in a conservative state.
However, the comment is odd because it is similar to something Trump said about himself back in January during a campaign event in Iowa.
I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn t lose any voters, OK?
the pre-nominee Trump told his supporters.The assertion has me wondering, just how well protected Trump is.
Trump is embroiled in numerous legal scandals, the biggest probably being the huge scam known as Trump University.
The university is a scam that took thousands of people s money and gave them nothing back in return.
Even former employees of the school were revealed to have considered the place to be a giant fraud.
Questions have even been raised about whether Trump had actually bribed his way out of having the school be investigated in Florida.I have no idea how Trump is still not in prison for his dealings in Atlantic City.
That s where he made millions from casinos that were failing.
He also failed to pay contracted workers what they were owed, all the while taking in huge bonuses.
Some of his actions might even have been felonious.Say what you want about Clinton and her status in society and you will see Trump standing at least just as high.
Trump is billionaire aristocrat who uses his privilege to grow his fortune even more by abusing the working class.
He is protected.
He is not an outsider.
We live in a capitalist society and he is a member of the transnational capitalist class.You can watch trump make the comment below.Featured image from video screenshot