In what was either an interview with CNN s Jake Tapper or a very public suicide note, Marco Rubio broken, sad, and tired suddenly had a lot of good things to say about Donald Trump, the man he once called a lunatic incapable of being president.
Rubio, like Chris Christie and Ben Carson before him, has done a complete 180 degree turn on the issue of Trump which isn t as hard as it sounds if your spine is made of jelly.Speaking with Tapper, Rubio revealed one humiliating detail after another about his evolution.
According to his own account, Rubio has privately apologized to Trump for once implying that he had small hands (and a small penis), a conversation that would have been AMAZING to overhear.
I actually told Donald one of the debates, I forget which one I apologized to him for that, Rubio said.
I said, You know, I m sorry that I said that.
It s not who I am and I shouldn t have done it.
I didn t say it in front of the cameras, I didn t want any political benefit.
He also shrugged off Trump s overwhelming popularity with white supremacists.
Apparently, the fact that groups as toxic and hateful as the Ku Klux Klan and various neo-Nazis adore Trump doesn t bother Rubio.
Or maybe he s just come to accept that this is what the Republican Party stands for these days.
As he says it: It is what it is.
It is what it is might be something you say when you find a little dent on your car in the parking lot.
It should NOT be what you say to dismiss widespread racism thriving within the campaign of the man you just endorsed for president.
Yikes.However the most egregious demonstration of just how feckless Rubio has become came when the conversation turned towards Hillary Clinton.
When Tapper asked Rubio what he thought about Trump using outrageous lies like the Clintons killed a man in the 1990s and Bill Clinton is a serial rapist, the former presidential candidate said he didn t necessarily agree with the tactic, but Trump should keep doing it because it helps him get votes.
I don t think he should change if he s been successful, Rubio said when asked about Trump dredging up scandals of the 1990s to attack Hillary Clinton, which Rubio said he himself wouldn t do.
I may not like that direction, but at this point, he won and this is the direction that he won on.
All of this would be shocking if it weren t so obvious that this was how things would eventually play out.
Ben Carson, Trump s least popular campaign surrogate, has dealt with a similar situation, only worse.
He had to grovel in front of a man who once said he was little better than a child molester.
At least Rubio was just called Little Marco.
For the sacrifice of both his integrity and his political career, Rubio gets to look forward to a long campaign of being further humiliated by Trump.
Chris Christie has been forced to endure several instances of degradation at the hands of the guy he now wants to elect president.
Considering Rubio s heritage, it seems plausible that Trump will both use him a token Latino and also a punching bag when he needs to rile up his anti-immigrant flock.
Dark days are ahead for Rubio and he knows it.Throughout his interview with Tapper, Rubio s face oscillated between pained expressions.
Selling out is never fun.Watch a portion of Rubio s interview with Tapper see if you can pinpoint the exact moment Rubio s soul dies below:Featured image via CNN