Like most sane people and organizations, the North Carolina NAACP is furious over House Bill 2, North Carolina s new sweeping piece of bigoted anti-LGBT legislation.
They are so furious, in fact, that they will be using an old tactic from the 1960s Civil Rights Movement to force Gov.
Pat McCrory to repeal the law: sit-ins.Matt Barber, who is the president of the North Carolina NAACP, says he is giving McCrory until April 21st to get rid of this terrible law, or there will be sit-ins until he does.
Barber says of the law: We cannot be silent in the face of this race-based, class-based, homophobic and transphobic attack on wage earners, civil rights, and the LGBTQ community.
Together with our many allies, we will coordinate a campaign of nonviolent direct action along with other forms of nonviolent protest that will instruct our legislators with respect to the rights of all people.
Because the next session of the House doesn t start until the 25th of April, they would need a special session to meet Barber s demands by his April 21st deadline.
Barber s Forward Together Moral Movement is behind the organization of the sit-ins, and more information will be forthcoming.
They are also the group responsible for North Carolina s now-famous Moral Monday activist activities.Of course, the bigots on the wrong side of history are not going quietly into the dustbins of history where they belong, either.
The Christian Action League of North Carolina has already planned a rally in Raleigh, the state s capitol, to stand in solidarity with the bigoted lawmakers who made discrimination legal.
This event will take place this coming Monday, and there will be counter protests as well.Another event will be held at the governor s mansion on this coming Wednesday, and it isn t your usual protest either.
A group of people will assemble an air horn orchestra in order surround McCrory s home with lots of loud noise.
He really ought to love that one.Bravo, NAACP.
Thank you for your support, and for standing on the right side of history.Gov.
McCrory Shame on you.Featured image via Equality NC Twitter