Who better to help root out terror than a person whose religion forbids them from ratting out someone of their own faith?
The FBI and CIA are looking to increase the diversity of their agencies and that includes hiring more Arab Americans.One of the ways it hopes to achieve its goal of greater diversity is by holding a career fair in America s most Islamic city Dearborn, Michigan.In Stop the Islamization of America: A Practical Guide to the Resistance, renowned activist Pamela Geller provides the answer, offering proven, practical guidance on how freedom lovers can stop jihadist initiatives in local communities.Notices about the career fair have been posted on the Arab-American Chamber of Commerce s Facebook page, as well as in local news publications in Dearborn.The Press and Guide, for instance, ran a public notice that stated the following; Learn about working for two top government agencies during an informational session being held by The Central Intelligence Agency and Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Attendees will learn about both agencies and have the chance to hear about career opportunities as well as network with CIA and FBI representatives.
The event takes place at 6 p.m. July 19 at the Ford Motor Company Conference & Event Center, 1151 Village Road, Dearborn.
A formal presentation will run from 6 to 7:30 p.m. followed by networking from 7:30 to 8:30.
Both the FBI and CIA are seeking to increase diversity within the organizations and find specifically skilled applicants to fulfill critical roles within the agencies.
Those at the event will hear about specific job positions and qualifications through a panel discussion as well as the agencies similarities, strategic differences and shared commitment to thwart threats to national security.
Dinner will be provided, but seating is limited.
RSVP by July 12 to Christina Petrosian at chrissp@ucia.gov.
Petrosian did not immediately respond to emails from WND.Dick Manasseri, communications director for Secure Michigan, a citizen-watchdog group fighting what it sees as the Islamization of Michigan, said he found the advertisements troubling, but not surprising.
How can the FBI/CIA vet job applicants when they cannot mention the word Shariah?
Manasseri said.Manasseri was referring to the scrubbing of all FBI training manuals, removing all references to Shariah and Islam that were seen as discriminatory by Muslim groups.
That concession was made in response to complaints by the Council of American-Islamic Relations, or CAIR, by then-Deputy National Security Adviser John Brennan, who is now in charge of the CIA.
How can the FBI/CIA vet the information provided on applications from Shariah-adherents who are encouraged to lie to non-Muslims when it furthers the goals of Shariah?
Manasseri told WND.The Obama administration has also invited former CAIR officials into its circle of advisers within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
The opportunities for further federal government infiltration increases the probability that we will see Shariah courts in Southeast Michigan before long, Manasseri said.Dearborn s population is about 40 percent Arab and includes both Sunni and Shiite Muslims.
A minority of the Arab-American community in Dearborn are Christian.And the Dearborn area is getting more Muslim by the month thanks to the current Syrian refugee program being carried out by President Obama.
Just in the last nine months the U.S. State Department has delivered 143 Syrians to Dearborn for permanent resettlement.Another 174 Syrians have been sent to Troy, which is only 25 miles north of Dearborn.Michigan has been targeted to receive nearly half of the 10,000 Syrian refugees Obama has promised the United Nations he would admit into the U.S.After getting off to a slow start, Syrian arrivals are now occurring by the hundreds per day.
On Wednesday another 249 Syrians arrived in the U.S. for permanent resettlement.Obama s pledge of 10,000 Syrian refugees in fiscal 2016, which ends Sept. 30, now appears to be a deadline he will make.
His State Department has delivered nearly 60 percent of the 10,000 with two and a half months to go.
Via: WND