A letter to the editor appeared in The New York Times yesterday about how devastating Trump s immigration policy is.
It s not only going to destroy immigrant families and further harm our deteriorating relationship with Mexico; it s also going to rip apart military families.
The families that keep our soldiers grounded when they re overseas in combat zones.
And Trump doesn t care.David Kubat, a member of the Minnesota National Guard and also an immigration lawyer, wrote the short letter, where he said: I have personally experienced the hardship of deployments to combat zones, and know the incredible importance of family stability during that trying time.
This week, this administration rescinded the Parole in Place program, harming thousands of military families across the country.
This is another example of the careless excess of the administration s immigration policy.
Parole in Place protects military spouses, parents and children from deportation and was put in place by President Obama.
It gives servicemembers peace of mind that their families will still be here when they get home.
Now they don t have that because to Trump, it seems that soldiers should have to suffer if they were dumb enough to be involved with someone who could be subject to deportation.The GOP is supposed to be the family values party, and they love claiming that they re the only party that cares about the military.
It s not bad enough that they say that and then turn around and cut funding for the VA and other helpful programs.
Now their standard-bearer, their leader, is actively working to destroy the very thing that keeps our military grounded.Kubat went on to say: It is unconscionable to reverse a policy that strengthens our military and our veterans.
That the program was not even named in the memo demonstrates either a lack of awareness, or worse, a casual disregard of the effect that this will have on those most vulnerable members of our military.
Nice job, Republicans, for allowing this shitshow to make it all the way to the White House.
When we start seeing a spike in severe mental problems in our fighting men and women, we ll know exactly where to point the finger.Kubat s full letter is below:Now #Trump can deport spouses & families of US military personnel.
Letter: https://t.co/F6oaGYdW3D h/t @NinaBernstein1 pic.twitter.com/pCyc9Vg7DD David Beard (@dabeard) February 23, 2017Featured image by Olivier Douliery via Getty Images