If you had it in your head that the only defense for Donald Trump s Muslim ban is that we should completely ignore reality, you were more right than you knew.
On Saturday out borders reopened after Judge James Robert blocked President Asterisk s Muslim ban, correctly pointing out that there is no support for The Donald s argument that we have to protect the U.S. from individuals from the seven countries affected by the ban.Robert s decision, which also block the Trump administration from enforcing its limits on refugees, was celebrated nationwide as Trump and his allies stewed and our so-called President unleashed a ridiculous attack on the so-called judge who foiled his evil scheme.
After learning about checks, our unbalanced President whined:The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017But here s the thing: even the Trump administration doesn t believe that their fear and bigotry-based attempt to keep members of an entire religion out of our country.
I m also asked to look and determine if the executive order is rationally based, Robart told Trump s attorney.
Rationally based to me at least implies to some extent I have to find it grounded in facts as opposed to fiction.
Trump s attorney s baffled the world, responding that the facts simply do not matter: Well Your Honor, we don t think you re supposed to look at whether it s rationally based.
We think that the standard is facially legitimate.
Seriously, she said this:The moment Trump lawyer tells judge Robart of travel ban: "We actually don't think you're supposed to look at whether it's rationally based" pic.twitter.com/u9PRy4cKGT Rob S Silver Surfer (@RobPulseNews) February 5, 2017Robart is correct, as no one from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan or Yemen has committed a terrorist attack in the United States since 9/11.
I m sorry, there s no other way to put it, Robart said of the order.
It s Keystone Kops.
It really is.
And that s not just me speaking, that s Republican members of Congress.
Robart was referencing incompetent 20th-century cops who appeared in silent films early last century.Naturally, she is now the subject of widespread mockery.
@spencerwoodman @EnterElysium where did that women get a law degree out of a cereal box Resender (@Resender2be) February 4, 2017@spencerwoodman @KipperBedwas She's a career DoJ lawyer.
She's forced to defend the indefensible.
The judge confirmed 2x she did her job.
Bob Blaskiewicz (@rjblaskiewicz) February 4, 2017@spencerwoodman The administration would like to crack down on all rationally based thought, words or actions.
Citizen (@kathylun) February 4, 2017@spencerwoodman there you have it folks Trumps not interested in anything being RATIONAL which is why he is so irrational judy (@endhomelesnes) February 4, 2017Amazing.
Trump has Gov't arguing that his EOs do not have to be rationally based.
Trump's next EO: Cows must say Bah instead of moo https://t.co/L8wJtnAeoA (((ProfessingProf))) (@Professing_Prof) February 5, 2017Now that we have seen this, we know for certain that Donald Trump and his administration don t care about facts (or reality) at all and Trump s policies reflect that.You can see more of the exchange below:Featured image via screengrab