Backfire alert!
While the left tries to identify the marchers from the Charlottesville riot, it might be a good idea for them to read up on what happened to a professor and his wife: A professor and his wife had to go into hiding after the husband was misidentified as being one of the Charlottesville marchers.
Can you imagine?
That had to be horrifying!HERE S WHAT HAPPENED:When social justice warriors spray their holy rage across the internet, innocent people become collateral damage.Amateur detectives poring over footage of tiki-torch marchers in Charlottesville s Unite the Right march Aug. 11 wrongly identified an engineering professor at the University of Arkansas and scared him and his wife into hiding for the weekend, The New York Times reports.They sought to shame, harass and cause the firing of supposed white nationalists, and weren t going to let reasonable doubt slow their crusade:After a day of work at the Engineering Research Center at the University of Arkansas, Kyle Quinn had a pleasant Friday night in Bentonville with his wife and a colleague.
They explored an art exhibition at the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art and dined at an upscale restaurant.
A man at the rally had been photographed wearing an Arkansas Engineering shirt, and the amateur investigators found a photo of Mr. Quinn that looked somewhat similar.
They were both bearded and had similar builds.By internet frenzy standards, that was proof enough.Quinn said he was hit with a wall of vulgar messages calling for his firing and identifying his home address an example of doxxing, the same practice carried out by alt-right sleuths when they purportedly identified a professor as an Antifa thug at the Battle for Berkeley.Commenting on an image identifying Quinn as a marcher posted on Instagram, user mozel_tov claimed that Quinn participated in a hate rally in public where their would be news media and social media.
His very presence was a PUBLIC statement.
READ MORE: THE COLLEGE FIXACTRESS CALLS FOR DOXXING OF MARCHERSLEFTY ACTRESS JENNIFER LAWRENCE WANTS TO NAME AND SHAME THE MARCHERS BUT THIS HAS ALREADY PROVEN TO BE A MOVE THAT HAS BACKFIRED ON THE LEFT: Actress Jennifer Lawrence asked her 16 million Facebook followers to help track down the white supremacists who marched in the Charlottesville rally Saturday.
These are the faces of hate.
Look closely and post anyone you find, the Oscar winner wrote on Facebook, along with photos of the marchers carrying torches and flags with swastikas.
You can t hide with the internet you pathetic cowards!
VIA: NYDN