Nothing captures the sheer absurdity of the Republican 2016 presidential primary more than the Donald Trump phenomenon especially now that he has gotten the support of the worst element of American politics Sarah Palin.Palin s endorsement speech of Trump was nothing short of amazing, and that isn t intended to be a compliment.
The amazing part is that someone didn t send out the hook to pull her away from the microphone and off the stage.Palin s speech was the equivalent of putting a huge can of alphabet soup in a paint mixer, letting it run at its highest setting for about three hours, then taking small handfuls of it and hurling them at the crowd.Here are just a couple examples of the many truly epic statements she made:How bout the rest of us?
Right wingin , bitter clingin , proud clingers of our guns, our god, and our religions, and our Constitution.And you quit footin the bill for these nations who are oil-rich, we re paying for some of their squirmishes that have been going on for centuries.
Where they re fightin each other and yellin Allah Akbar calling Jihad on each other s heads for ever and ever.
Like I ve said before, let them duke it out and let Allah sort it out.Source: BuzzfeedYeah, she said squirmishes.
If Sarah was holding a giant flashing neon sign during the speech that said Please mock me, it couldn t have invited ridicule more than she already had within the first one minute of speaking.
Needless to say, some of our more liberally bent comedians took to it like wolves to red meat.Patton Oswalt took notice of her shenanigans and decided to deliver his own blistering impression of an average Sarah Palin speech, which you can read below:Just saw @SarahPalinUSA's speech and was really moved.
'Cuz what she said, about the main thing plus the ramifications of a betrayal of a tr Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) January 20, 2016"Like a field of corn the wings of our country's mountains will cannon the enemy of our freedom and hope to die."
@SarahPalinUSA Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) January 20, 2016"The grace of Jesus' love-light is a pinkie promise made from ten silver eyes that watch you in this and every night."
@SarahPalinUSA Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) January 20, 2016"Flags in high wind.
Christmas.
[car engine sound] Our resolve.
Over there and never.
PILLS!
[10 minutes of humming]" @SarahPalinUSA Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) January 20, 2016"Blirkishes.
Spamble-torks gillyhopping in phindly hooooooOOOOOOOOOLLs.
Lamestream media."
@SarahPalinUSA Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) January 20, 2016Right up until the last one or two, it would have been legitimately hard to know if it was a parody or actual things she said.
Do you think Donald is regretting taking her on as his court jester yet?Featured image via Twitter