Students at a North Carolina high school have let Donald Trump s influence get to them way too much.
Last week, they built a wall of boxes that blocked off McDowell High School s common area, and then put the photo on Instagram, saying, We built the wall first, in apparent homage to Donald Trump and his border wall idea.Worse, they built this wall under the supervision of a teacher.
Of all people, a teacher should have known what this symbolized and discouraged the students from doing this.
Instead, these students got supervision for a racist prank that understandably upset their Latino classmates.They wanted to put a Trump sticker on it, too, but at least someone had the guts to tell them they couldn t do that.
A picture of the wall was shared on Students4Trump s Instagram account, and is below:McDowell High School students get the award for best #studentsfortrump senior prank.
THEY BUILT A WALL!!
We are #students4trump #trump2016 #trump #maga #studentsfortrump #makeamericagreatagain #trump #trumptrainA photo posted by Students For Trump (@students4trump) on Jun 2, 2016 at 2:50pm PDTTrump has been chanting about a wall along the Mexican border nonstop since he announced his candidacy a year ago, and he s been extremely racist against Latinos in the U.S.
In fact, he tweeted that the anti-Trump protesters that got violent at his San Jose rally were mostly illegals: Many of the thugs that attacked the peaceful Trump supporters in San Jose were illegals.
They burned the American flag and laughed at police Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2016One has to wonder how he knows that.
Chances are, he doesn t, and just assumes that any Latinos who don t support him are here illegally.These kids took a page straight out of his book to do this, and they know it.
Otherwise they wouldn t have wanted to put a Trump sticker on it.
The students aren t going to face any disciplinary action over it, either, likely because it was just a prank.
That tells them that racist behavior will be tolerated in our society and teaches them nothing of value.Trump would be so proud of these kids.
That s sickening.Featured image by Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images