When Marco Rubio announced that he was running for president, some people thought that he was going to be the who beat Jeb and Trump.
Some have even speculated that he is the only Republican presidential candidate who would have a fighting chance against the Democratic nominee.
However, over the last week or so, he s just started acting really, really strange and now even his friends are worried about him.First, after Ted Cruz was declared the winner of the Iowa Caucus, Rubio stood up at a podium and gave a victory speech.
Seriously, he literally stood there for nearly twelve minutes.
He spoke for so long that even I started to believe that the news stations were all wrong and he was the first place, not third place winner.
It was the most awkward thing I have witnessed since he desperate reach for water during the State of the Union rebuttal in 2013.So, after his extremely awkward Iowa Caucus speech, he showed up at the Republican debate and it only got worse.During the debate Rubio repeated the same line four times.
It was almost as if his team was like, Yo, Marco, whenever you get stuck just say Obama knows exactly what he s doing.
Don t worry, bro, the crowd will know what you re saying.
Watching him repeat himself was painful and highlighted all of his inexperience.
But, one of his personal friends, CNN commentator Anna Navarro said she thinks that his performance illustrates a much larger problem for the candidate: I ve got to tell you this.
By the fourth time he was repeating the exact same words verbatim, I was concerned for his health.
Just because Marco is too good And somehow his cables got crossed.
You know, short-circuited.
And it was very weird.
You know your debate theatrics were really, really bad when one of your friends thinks you need to go see a doctor.
I personally believe he is just in too deep and not ready to play such a large roll in the government; he is not President Obama.
But just to be on the safe side, maybe Ben Carson should take a look at his noggin with those gifted hands of his.Watch the interview below: Featured image via video screenshot