MSNBC host Joy Reid was SHOCKED when a conservative anti-choice activist openly stated that birth control should be banned.During a panel discussion on Saturday, Kristan Hawkins of Students for Life literally admitted that she wants a law that forces women to get pregnant if they want to have sex.The discussion began with Reid pointing out that contraception and mammogram costs will go up for women if the Affordable Care Act is repealed.Reid asked the panel if they agreed that contraception should be legal, and Hawkins not only disagreed, she spewed misinformation about two popular forms of contraception.
I believe certain forms can be legal, yes, Hawkins said.
I don t believe abortion causing contraception should be legal.
When asked to specifically name a form of contraception she thinks should be outlawed, Hawkins mentioned hormonal contraception like IUDs.REID: You think IUDs should be illegal?
HAWKINS: I don t think they should be legal.
They put women at risk and they kill children.
Except that IUDs are one of the safest forms of birth control, and they work by preventing sperm from joining with the egg.According to the Baby Center,Both types of IUDs work primarily by preventing sperm from fertilizing an egg.
The copper IUD releases copper into the uterus, which works as a spermicide.
The others release a form of the hormone progestin into the uterus.
The progestin thickens the cervical mucus so that sperm can t reach the egg.In other words, unless conservatives now believe that life begins BEFORE conception, they should have absolutely no problem with IUDs.But Hawkins also declared that birth control pills should be illegal as well.However, birth control pills also prevent conception by stopping sperm from reaching an egg.According to Columbia University,Birth control pills prevent pregnancy through several mechanisms, mainly by stopping ovulation.
If no egg is released, there is nothing to be fertilized by sperm, and the woman cannot get pregnant.So once again, Hawkins is wrong.
But she repeated her claims again after Reid asked her to clarify her remarks, and Hawkins confirmed once and for all that anti-choice conservatives want to ban birth control as well as abortion.
In my ideal world, yes.
But I don t think that s something we re working towards in the pro-life movement.
In the pro-life movement we re working towards abolishing abortion.
That s why we want Planned Parenthood s money to go to health centers which don t do contraception.
By taking money away from Planned Parenthood, millions of women would have less access to birth control that would prevent unwanted pregnancies and abortions.
We ve gotten some real clarity, Reid commented at the end of the segment.
I think the American people have gotten quite a bit of clarity on what your movement wants to do.
Here s the video via VidMe.And if conservatives like Hawkins get their way, Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress will strip women of their reproductive rights.
And women won t be marching in Washington in defense of their rights next time.
They ll declare war on Washington.Featured image via screen capture