The Republican National Convention was already shaping up to be a nightmare, and for Donald Trump and the very few GOPers that are going to be in attendance, it s about to get a lot worse.Pro-LGBT group Planting Peace found the perfect way to troll bigoted Republicans, and they unveiled it earlier today.
Directly outside where the RNC in Cleveland will be held next week is a new billboard showing Trump and Ted Cruz, who was once smeared by the business mogul but is now speaking at his convention, seconds away from the grossest make-out fest you ll ever imagine.
The caption on the billboard is also perfect: Love Trumps Hate.
End Homophobia.
Planting PeaceThe timing is perfect Planting Peace erected the billboard right as the Republican platform committee approved what is being referred to as the GOP s most homophobic party platform yet.
To encourage Republicans attending the RNC to actually consider how the party s bigotry might be affecting America s youth, Planting Peace said: We challenge the GOP to think about how many times their children could hear messages like these and not be impacted or question their value and worth?
These messages sink our young people into a spiral of depression and directly correlate to queer youth attempting or actually committing suicide.
The blood of these children is on the hands of the anti-LGBT platform of the republican party.
Planting Peace is the same non-profit that brought The Equality House, a rainbow-colored house sitting across the street from Westboro Baptist Church, into existence so it was only appropriate that this equally troll-like statement like this would come from them.
Aaron Jackson, the President of Planting Peace, said the sign was meant to attack the GOP s anti-gay agenda: What Donald, Ted and the Republican Party either fail to realize, or realize and just don t seem to care about, is that their words and actions toward our LGBT family especially LGBT children have meaning and impact.
LGBT children hear these messages telling them they are nothing but second-class citizens and are left feeling broken or less than.
When children are dying because of negative messages, then it s time to change the message.
Planting Peace calls for the immediate change in the Republican party platform with regard to our LGBT family and LGBT rights.
Never again shall a negative, hateful message be uttered in the name of religious freedom.
We are calling for action that brings full, fundamental rights to the LGBT community, and a narrative that empowers LGBT people to live and love freely.
This billboard is going to have Trump and his brainless supporters going insane.
We can only hope that someone will be able to take a picture of Trump s face when he sees it.Featured image via Gage Skidmore