Right now, the whole world is looking at the shocking fact that Democrat Doug Jones beat Republican Roy Moore in the special election to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions in the United States Senate.
Of course, Moore s candidacy was rocked by allegations of sexually harassing and even molesting teenage girls and being banned from the mall in his hometown of Gadsden, Alabama for doing so.Even before that, Moore was an incendiary character in Alabama politics, having been removed as Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court not once but twice, and having made statements such as Muslims should not be allowed in Congress and homosexuality should be illegal.
Hell, he even said that the last time America was great was when we had slavery.
Therefore, he was an extraordinarily damaged candidate as it was.
However, despite all of this, Alabama is a deep red state, with many voters agreeing with some of Moore s more extreme positions, and some even insisting that the allegations of sexual misconduct were simply not true.
That is why it was such a shock that Doug Jones pulled out a win for that Senate seat.Well, there is one entity that could not resist going all in on the fact that Roy Moore lost this race: Saturday Night Live.
While doing a caricature of the results, SNL began, with its Weekend Update host Colin Jost brutally mocking Moore s alleged proclivities fore teen girls: Congratulations to Alabama s newest Senator not Roy Moore.
Doug Jones has become the first Democrat to win a Senate seat in Alabama in over 20 years.
Said Roy Moore: gross, over 20 years?
Jost then got in a dig at Trump, for whom Moore s loss was a humiliating failure, remind everyone what Trump said of Jones win: The Republicans will have another shot at this seat in a very short period of time.
It never ends!
Indeed.
If the sane people of America have anything to say about it, it will be a very, very long time after 2018 before the GOP is allowed to control anything.
Jost continued mocking Trump: That s it?
You just went all in for an accused pedophile and when he lost, [you re] just like, well, we had fun!
He could be removed from office tonight and tweet: Congratulations to Robert Mueller on a great investigation.
Had a fun time being president.
Catch you on the flippity-flop!
#DietCokeTime .
Oh, if only that could be our reality, to have Trump congratulating Mueller for removing him and his entire treasonous, criminal administration.
Until then, we ll have to stick to Weekend Update and the rest of SNL, and hope for the best.Watch the video below:Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images