After 8 brutal years of race-baiting, endless stories of victimhood, organizing with Black Lives Matter activists terrorists in our White House, and the worst racial-division we have seen in our nation in decades, this young man s inspirational story is truly a breath of fresh air Barack and Michelle Obama have worked very hard for the past 8 years to make every black American believe the unjust system in America is out to get them.
They d like minorities in America to accept they ve been born into a system that won t allow them to get ahead in life, and without the Democrat Party they don t stand a chance.
You never hear the Obama s tell minorities they have the ability to be anything they want, or that with hard work and commitment to making a better life for themselves, anything is possible.
That s because the Democrat Party has always believed that unless they can keep the citizens down and dependent on the government, there will no longer be a need for their party.
It s a survival thing, and the Black community is paying a heavy price for the Democrat Party s desire for power.
Here s an inspirational story about one smart kid who was blessed to have a mother who didn t buy into Obama s victim mentality:A teenage boy in Tennessee used hard work, planning and dedication to earn enough money to pay for college before he even starts.
I just stay away from the negativity and try to always be positive, Kevuntez King told WHBQ.King said he grew up in a single-parent home with his mother, whose influence paved his way to success.
She just taught me how to be independent like she had it, (and) she just wanted me to go get it myself, he said.From age 12 to 17, King sold newspapers with one goal: earn enough to pay for his entire college education.
And he did just that.
When it came down to school, my mom didn t have to come out of pocket to do anything or I didn t have to take out any loans to go to school, he told WHBQ.He earned $200 every Sunday for five years straight and was just accepted into Tennessee State University.King has this piece of advice to share: Make sure you surround yourself with people that s trying to go up in life and not trying to bring you down.
Just stay positive and always believe in yourself and push for it.
Q13Fox