Amateur president Donald Trump routinely propagates fake news while deflecting from major scandals surrounding his chaotic administration.
During his ego-rally in Florida Saturday, Trump fabricated a terror attack in Sweden, which he said happened on Friday night.
That, of course, never happened.
Trump s lie certainly caught officials in Sweden off guard.
The the Swedish embassy in Washington has asked the U.S. State Department for an explanation of Trump s claim.
The Internet thoroughly mocked Trump s remarks, and considering it was the third fabricated terror attack from team Trump, it was well deserved.
And now, a Swedish newspaper is trolling Trump, too.Since Trump said the attack happened last night in Sweden, the English-language newspaper, Aftonbladet, used those words to publish a list of what did happen last night in their country.
The article also includes a video of Trump s remarks at the rally.
On Sunday Trump clarified on Twitter that he was not referring to a specific event, but to a Fox News story broadcasted Friday evening, the paper writes.
Anyway, Mr President, here is what happened in Sweden Friday night, it continues.The list:3:24 PM (local time): A man set himself on fire at Sergels torg, a plaza in central Stockholm.
He was taken to the hospital with severe burns.
There is so far no information on his motives but the intelligence service is not part of the investigation.6:42 PM: The famous singer Owe Th rnqvist had some technical problems during rehearsal for the singing competition Melodifestivalen .
(However, the 87 year old singer still managed to secure the victory the very next day.
)8:23 PM: A man died in hospital, after an accident in the workplace earlier that day in the city of Bor s.8:46 PM: Due to harsh weather in the northern parts of Sweden the road E10 was closed between Katterj kk and Riksgr nsen.
Due to strong winds and snow in the region the Met office also issued an avalanche warning.12:17 AM: Police officers initiated a chase for a fleeing Peugeot through central parts of the Swedish capital of Stockholm.
The pursuit ended in police officers ramming the suspect at Engelbrektsgatan.
The driver is now accused of driving under the influence, traffic violation and car theft.IN LIGHTER NEWS: 11:23 AM: Ok, let s not be fake news, this story took place in the autumn, but was reported Friday before lunch and we thought you would like it.
A wooden moose got the attention of a lovesick moose bull.
It all happened in 79 year old Ove Lindqvist s garden in Byske outside Skellefte , northern Sweden.
I thought it was going to start a fight, instead it humped the wooden moose thrice , he said.Trump was just trolled hard on wait for it Presidents Day.Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images.