If there is anything that really gets under Donald Trump s skin, it is people questioning his authority and his legitimacy as president.
This is the reason that he keeps making up claims of fake voter fraud whenever anyone points out the fact that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by close to three million.
It is also why he took such exception to Saturday Night Live portraying his chief strategist, former Breitbart News head Stephen K. Bannon, as the real president.Well, that narrative has been taken to a whole other level by #RESISTANCE organizers.
They, like anyone sane, realizes that Bannon has an unusual amount of power in the Trump White House.
That is troubling, considering that Bannon is a white supremacist who also has said he wants to destroy the state.
Therefore, the answer to this is to make sure that people understand that it is quite possibly Bannon, rather than Trump, calling the real shots up there in Washington.The new campaign has put signs in major cities around the nation that read, Impeach President Bannon.
Spotted in DC this morning these are so newly posted the wheat paste is still wet.
pic.twitter.com/pwTubJVFmu Garance Franke-Ruta (@thegarance) February 19, 2017According to the people who organized the effort, their reasoning for doing so is the following: No one voted for Steve Bannon.
Yet he is the de-facto 45th President of the United States.
This could very well be true; after all, Trump has named Bannon to the National Security Council, all the while demoting the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence.
Further, it is pretty clear to anyone watching that Bannon has quite a bit of influence over Trump so much so that TIME Magazine actually put Bannon on the cover instead of Trump, and called him the great manipulator.
As for the goals of this campaign?
Well, there are a few possibilities, according to those behind it: Maybe we ll encourage an angry tweet or two.
Maybe even get Trump to say his two favorite words to Bannon, You re Fired.
We ll tune in.
It ll be great for ratings.
Hopefully, Trump s ego takes over on this one, and Bannon is out the door sooner rather than later.
That would definitely be a win for #THERESISTANCE.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images