Once again, Donald Trump threw a temper tantrum over Saturday Night Live and Alec Baldwin was there to put him over his knee like a petulant child.Saturday Night Live hilariously lampooned Trump during the cold open, depicting him meeting with several people, including a General, Mitt Romney, and Mike Pence as Kellyanne Conway spent the time wishing she had a time machine to stop herself from helping Trump win.Overwhelmed by the new job, Baldwin s Trump had to look up ISIS on Google to figure out what it is, freaked out about how to bring back every coal job in West Virginia that has been lost, and double checked with Mike Pence to make sure he ll be doing everything for him.Here s the video via YouTube.Thin-skinned as usual, Donald Trump lashed out when he saw the skit on Sunday morning, calling it a biased show and actually demanded equal time.
I watched parts of @nbcsnl Saturday Night Live last night.
It is a totally one-sided, biased show nothing funny at all.
Equal time for us?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 20, 2016This is an asinine demand that would only have merit if Hillary Clinton had appeared on Saturday Night Live during the campaign.
But the election is over.30 minutes after Trump whined about SNL, Alec Baldwin responded by putting Trump in his place.
@realDonaldTrump Equal time?
Election is over.
There is no more equal time.
Now u try 2 b Pres + ppl respond.
That s pretty much it.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) November 20, 2016Trump also made more time to criticize the cast of Hamilton because he is incapable of letting things go.The cast and producers of Hamilton, which I hear is highly overrated, should immediately apologize to Mike Pence for their terrible behavior Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 20, 2016Seriously, presidents are supposed to be above this stuff.
But Trump refuses to ignore every little slight against him, no matter where it comes from.
He is only a couple months away from taking over the White House and he still hasn t learned to control his temper or his thirst for revenge.
Nations are going to test him and we re all going to end up suffering for it because this man can t even handle a Broadway play or a comedy skit.
How are we supposed to expect him to act when a nation insults him and he has control of the nuclear weapons?Featured Image: Screenshot