Joe Biden is as genuine as they come.
For many, their first exposure to him was when they watched him decimate Sarah Palin in the pre-election debates with a brilliant mind, clever wit and award-winning smile.
Four years later, it was Paul Ryan who looked like a deer caught in the headlights as VP Biden considered his preposterous answers in their debates together and couldn t help but bust out in that ever-popular Joe Biden laugh.Joe Biden is one of the good ones.
He s one of us.
He s not a wealthy man or a sleezy politician who manages to live large off of campaign war chests; he s just a man who happens to be second in line for the most powerful office in the world.Last year we were thrust into the personal life of Joe Biden and his family when his beloved son Beau, who the vice president calls his soul, was taken from him after a battle with cancer.
What many people don t know is the incredible support Mr. Biden received from the only man he can call boss, President Barack Obama.
The president delivered a beautiful and unforgettable eulogy for Beau, but according to an interview Biden did Monday with CNN, that was just the tip of the iceberg of the love and friendship he showed the Vice President.According to Biden, after Beau had the stroke that began the path towards his passing, President Obama came RUNNING down the hallway of the hospital to see if his friend and colleague was OK. Biden assured the president that he would be; that he and his wife would sell their house to get by and take care of Beau if need be.In an incredible act of selflessness and kindness, our President offered to give Joe Biden and his family whatever financial support they needed to weather the storm.
As he tells the story you can see the tears welling up in his eyes.
He says repeatedly that he s certain the president will be upset that he made such a personal notion public, but this man obviously wants the country to know exactly what kind of man sits in the Oval Office.He goes on to talk about the president and his family and how they are HIS family.
How the President s daughters have sleepovers with his granddaughters and how much the special friendship between them has meant.Warning: The interview is a tear-jerker.
Never have I been more proud of our president MY president or more thankful for having had the opportunity to witness his historic and monumentally successful administration than I am after watching this video:Featured image via screen capture