Yesterday, 70-year-old Donald Trump resorted to acting like a 5-year-old again by attacking NBC News Chuck Todd over Twitter.Unable to process emotions like a grown-up and handle the fact that not everyone will like or agree with him, Trump reignited his Twitter feud with Todd by calling him Sleepy Eyes after being upset about Todd s coverage of his rally in North Carolina.
Trump also ended up calling Todd disloyal for criticizing him, and eventually saying that he didn t want to even talk about him (even though several of Trump s tweets are just about Todd).
He tweeted: Sleepy eyes Chuck Todd, a man with so little touch for politics, is at it again.
He could not have watched my standing ovation speech in N.C. TwitterTrump followed this up with another tweet with the Sleepy Eyes insult: I have over seven million hits on social media re Crooked Hillary Clinton.
Check it out Sleepy Eyes, @[email protected] This was Trump s attempt to engage Todd in an on and off Twitter battle.
According to Business Insider, Trump has called Chuck Todd Sleepy Eyes 16 times over the last 4 years, and he clearly wanted to stir things up again.
But Trump s Twitter attacks fell flat, as Todd proved that he knows just how to handle moronic internet bullies like Trump ignore them.
Todd responded on Twitter, and shut the whole thing down in one sentence:TwitterThis tweet went out about an hour after Todd s Meet The Press Daily panel discussed Trump s disastrous search for a running mate, noting that several of the business mogul s picks for VP were pulling out.
Todd has been one of Trump s most outspoken critics in the media, having previously called him out on his hypocritical attacks against his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.TwitterTrump has previously moaned and whined about Meet The Press being totally biased and against him, and that s how Todd and NBC know they re doing something right.
The media is supposed to be critical and point out fallacies, and Trump just doesn t have the temperament to handle it.Featured image is a screenshot