House Speaker Paul Ryan is nothing but a spineless weasel.
Earlier in the GOP Primary season, he seemed to actually have a bit of common decency not to mention common sense when he called out Trump for refusing to disavow an endorsement from a white supremacist, and when he outright said that he was not comfortable endorsing Trump.
However, as it became increasingly clear that Trump was not to be stopped, Ryan started preparing to back off his attacks on the billionaire mogul by having meetings with him clearly a preparation for an endorsement.
Now, that day has come, as Speaker Ryan has officially said that he is prepared to vote for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.Ryan s hometown newspaper, The Gazette, ran a column where the House Speaker announced his support for Trump.
Ryan wrote in the column that he has been speaking with Trump, and is somehow now comfortable endorsing him, when such a short time ago he clearly was not.
He wrote in the column: Through these conversations, I feel confident he (Trump) would help us turn the ideas in this agenda into laws to help improve people s lives.
That s why I ll be voting for him this fall.
He went on to say: But the reality is, on the issues that make up our agenda, we have more common ground than disagreement.
But of course, at the core of Ryan s reasoning for endorsing a dangerous, racist narcissist for the position of leader of the free world is the fact that the GOP is putting party before country, and ultimately if they stop Clinton, they re just fine with Trump in the White House.
Ryan went on to warn of what would happen if Clinton beat Trump: A Clinton White House would mean four more years of liberal cronyism and a government more out for itself than the people it serves.
Quite simply, she represents all that our agenda aims to fix.
And that s really what it s all about.
Paul Ryan is willing to let Donald Trump literally destroy America with his hateful ideas and dangerous policy proposals and willingness to sever ties with our most important allies in order to not have a truly qualified president because he disagrees with her politically.And to top off just how absolutely spineless this man is, he had his speech uploaded to The Gazette s website during Hillary Clinton s big, anti-Trump foreign policy speech clearly in the hopes that nobody would notice what he has done.Shame on you, Speaker Ryan.
Hopefully, this is the end of your political career.
One can certainly hope.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images