Accidents are bound to happen when Democrats become so comfortable with their allies in the liberal media that they forget they re on TV, as they expose themselves and their crooked administration to a national audience.The Conservative Treehouse does a brilliant job of dissecting the interview between former Obama administration official Evelyn Farkas and MSNBC s Mika Brzezinski.
They also offer evidence of a fake disinformation campaign that was spread by the Obama regime about a Trump- Russian connection.
[UPDATE to story below]This is stunningly interesting and hopefully will be picked up by MSM and congressional investigators.Sometimes when a person is deep inside an echo-chamber of like-minded ideologues, they might not realize what they re saying is rather revealing to those on the outside.
That s the set up for former Obama administration official Evelyn Farkas (Deputy Asst.
Secretary of Defense) appearing on MSNBC and admitting first hand knowledge the Obama administration spied on candidate and president-elect Donald Trump s transition team to gather intelligence for political use.It would appear Ms. Farkas was so caught up in the discussion, she didn t quite realize the significant admissions she was making about the Obama administration spying on Donald Trump s team and generating classified intelligence for Ms. Farkas (and others) to spread to Capitol Hill politicians.
MSNBC s Mika Brzezinski recognized the oh-snap admission and tried to play it off, but by then it was too late.With the help of MSNBC, simultaneous to her admission of first-hand specific knowledge of the administration spying on Mr. Trump, Ms. Evelyn Farkas outs herself as the key source for a New York Times report which discussed President Obama officials leaking classified information to media.Considerable irony jumps to the forefront when you recognize, the New York Times tried to protect Evelyn Farkas as the source of their reporting by stating: More than a half-dozen current and former officials described various aspects of the effort to preserve and distribute the intelligence, and some said they were speaking to draw attention to the material and ensure proper investigation by Congress.
All spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were discussing classified information, nearly all of which remains secret.
(link)D oh.Whoopsie.Looks like Devin Nunes and the House Intelligence Committee has a new person to bring in for testimony.
A positive development because at this rate the media leakers will out themselves without much need for investigation.I wonder what the criminal penalties are for having access to intelligence and sharing it with Democrat politicians [ The Hill People ].Question #1:Who, specifically, are these Hill People you speak of Mrs. Farkas?Watch again.
Longer version starts at the 4:50 mark:https://youtu.be/cVGp2FZmVA4 Evelyn Farkas has stated freely on TV that she and a group of associates from the Obama Administration went to congressional staffers who did not have access to these COMINT products and urged them to seek to gain access to them.At some point in the recent past Farkas was de-briefed (cut off) from access to the various kinds of compartmented information she had been given as a requirement of her prior job.
When that occurred she signed some papers in which she accepted the responsibility to protect the secrecy of that information.
(link) Evelyn Farkas is also a senior fellow of the Atlantic Council SEE HERE the Atlantic Council is funded in part by the US State Department, NATO, the governments of Latvia and Lithuania, the Ukrainian World Congress, and the Ukrainian oligarch Victor Pinchuk.
The Atlantic Council has been among the loudest voices calling for a new Cold War with RussiaAnd guess who else is a senior fellow of the Atlantic Council?
Dimitri Alperovitch the founder and CTO of CrowdStrike!
Alperovitch is head honcho of the Atlantic Council s Cyber Statecraft Initiative .
CrowdStrike, aka Dimitri Alperovitch was the organization that initially claimed they had evidence the Russians were connected to the Trump organization.
A claim they have subsequently walked back SEE HERECrowdStrike has retracted statements it used to buttress claims of Russian hacking https://t.co/8AZOvoQl0K Michael Tracey (@mtracey) March 28, 2017Combine all of these data-points and you discover that Evelyn Farkas was essentially part of a disinformation campaign with Obama insiders spreading a fake DNC constructed story using false information.
However, in addition to pushing the false Trump Russian conspiracy narrative, Farkas has knowledge of the outcome of the original pushing of the narrative leading to actual surveillance of the Trump team.This bolsters the information already presented by Devin Nunes that an entirely separate network of surveillance, unrelated to the Russian conspiracy story, was directly targeting the candidacy of Trump and the post-election surveillance of the President Elect Trump-transition team.For entire story: The Conservative Treehouse