Remember when the first question reporters asked players after winning a national championship went something like this: Now that you ve reached the pinnacle of your career, where are you going?
to which the player would reply, I m going to Disneyworld!
Since ESPN has become more of a liberal propaganda network than an actual sports network, their question has changed to asking about whether or not the players will dare to visit the White House, where the one man who liberals fear most currently resides.ESPN s obsession with President Trump is embarrassing.
Instead of reporting about sports, they d rather report about how many crybaby, multi-millionaire athletes don t like our President and may choose to stay home in their safe-spaces as opposed to visiting the democratically elected President of the greatest country in the world.
To put this in perspective, in less than 24 hours after winning the NBA championship, ESPN s senior NBA writer, The Undefeated s Marc Spears obsessed over whether or not the Golden State Warrior team would visit the White House.
Seriously?
After winning the coveted NBA championship, that s what basketball fans are supposed to care about?
Did anyone at ESPN even consider that about 99.9% of their target market couldn t care less about their leftist political propaganda, and they actually want read their articles or tune in to their shows because they re interested in SPORTS?From ESPN article titled:The reigning champion Golden State Warriors addressed speculation about whether they will make the traditional visit to the White House, saying they will make those decisions when and if necessary.
Today is all about celebrating our championship, the team said in a statement Tuesday.
We have not received an invitation to the White House, but will make those decisions when and if necessary.
Shortly before the team issued its statement, Warriors owner Joe Lacob was asked about a potential White House visit during an interview with ESPN s First Take.
I can t believe we re getting this question already, Lacob said.
But honestly, that s something we ll worry about at the time.
That s a long time from now.
Questions about the Warriors plans for a trip to Washington, D.C., arose just hours after they won their second NBA title in the last three years, when a CNBC analyst tweeted that the team unanimously decided to skip the White House visit.Most of the Warriors, in the immediate aftermath of their Game 5 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers, have not publicly commented on whether they will make the trip.Veteran forward David West, who has been outspoken in his disapproval of President Donald Trump, told The Undefeated s Marc Spears on Monday night that he probably will decline the opportunity.
I don t know.
I probably won t, West said.
But I m going to enjoy this.
They re going to have to get me down from this cloud.
I can t describe it.
Warriors coach Steve Kerr expressed his disappointment with the election results last November, saying after the election that Trump regularly used racist, misogynist, insulting words during his campaign.