Elizabeth Warren went on the attack against Donald Trump again on Sunday and you can bet that the Republican nominee is fuming about it.During a rally in Colorado, the Massachusetts Senator called out the alleged billionaire for bragging about sexual assault, being a failed businessman, and for being too scared to release his tax returns.
In this election, I am proud to be a Democrat, Warren began.
I am proud that we are a party that doesn t debate who has the smallest hands.
Warren talked about the years between 1935 and 1980 when the economy worked for all Americans before Ronald Reagan became president and helped Republicans push through an agenda that reversed that prosperity and gave it to the wealthy.Then she turned her ire back on to Trump, calling him a small insecure moneygrubber who only cares about himself because when the housing crash happened he rooted for it because he wanted to swoop in like a vulture and buy the properties on the cheap.Warren then took aim at Trump for stiffing the people he made contracts with to build his resorts, people like plumbers and painters who didn t get paid because Trump is a pathetic cheapskate who screws over the little guy when it suits him.Then she brought up Trump s refusal to release his tax returns, which could confirm that he paid no federal income taxes for 20 years.
The big brave Donald Trump is too chicken to release his tax returns, she said before clucking like a chicken daring Trump to not be a coward.But she saved most of her anger for the way Trump has treated women and how he has bragged about sexually assaulting women.
Some people say it makes them sick to hear Donald Trump talk like that, Warren told the crowd.
Well not me.
Donald Trump s words don t make me sick anymore.
They make me furious.
Here s the full speech via YouTube.Donald Trump has never been able to pick a fight with Elizabeth Warren and win so it would be inadvisable for him to attack her on social media again.
But because Trump is so thin-skinned, we should be expecting a temper tantrum any time.Featured Image via screencap