The Republican Party is filled with even more drama over their primary today as Cruz and Kasich have apparently teamed up to destroy frontrunner Donald Trump and the billionaire is having a meltdown.On Sunday, the Ted Cruz Campaign and John Kasich Campaign both released statements declaring they are joining forces and will be dividing their attention in the remaining primaries to keep Trump from winning.
Cruz for President Campaign Manager Jeff Roe said: Having Donald Trump at the top of the ticket in November would be a sure disaster for Republicans To ensure that we nominate a Republican who can unify the Republican Party and win in November, our campaign will focus its time and resources in Indiana and in turn clear the path for Gov.
Kasich to compete in Oregon and New Mexico, and we would hope that allies of both campaigns would follow our lead.
Kasich s campaign manager, John Weaver, said that the Ohio governor s campaign was going to shift their resources to the West and give the Cruz campaign a clear path in Indiana.
NEWS: Kasich campaign will marshal campaign resources to New Mexico and Oregon, allow Cruz to focus on Indiana.
pic.twitter.com/auUIUX961O Team Kasich (@TeamJohnKasich) April 25, 2016According to CNN, this is a campaign strategy the two Republicans have been working on for weeks.
They hope that they will be able to keep Trump from obtaining the 1,237 delegates necessary to win the nomination this summer.
If they can do that, the Republican s will have a contested convention over the summer and that will leave the door open for one of them to swoop in and win the nomination.
Ted Cruz has already been trying to woo Trump s pledged delegates into voting for him on a second ballot at the convention.When the news broke that Cruz and Kasich were doing this, Donald Trump (of course) took to Twitter and slammed the campaigns:Wow, just announced that Lyin Ted and Kasich are going to collude in order to keep me from getting the Republican nomination.
DESPERATION!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2016 Lyin Ted and Kasich are mathematically dead and totally desperate.
Their donors & special interest groups are not happy with them.
Sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2016After those two tweets, Trump apparently went to bed but was back at it again first thing Monday morning: Lyin Ted Cruz and 1 for 38 Kasich are unable to beat me on their own so they have to team up (collusion) in a two on one.
Shows weakness!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2016Shows how weak and desperate Lyin Ted is when he has to team up with a guy who openly can t stand him and is only 1 win and 38 losses.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2016Over the last week or so, Trump has been trying really hard to seem presidential.
But his facade is going to be really hard to maintain after this announcement.
I am sure we are going to hear a lot more in the coming days.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images