It s two days before Americans head to the polls to choose between an orange, unhinged self-described billionaire and one of the most sane candidates we ve ever had for the presidency.
Tensions are high, especially within the campaigns.
Trump s campaign is so worried their nominee will tweet something that could lose him the election, they ve blocked him from using the social networking site.
When President Obama heard about it, he had no choice but to mock Trump.
Apparently his campaign has taken away his Twitter, Obama said during a Florida rally for Hillary Clinton, to laughs.
In the last two days, they had so little confidence in his self control, they said: We re just going to take away your Twitter.
Now, if somebody can t handle a Twitter account, they can t handle the nuclear code, Obama continued.
If somebody starts tweeting at three in the morning because SNL made fun of you, then you can t handle the nuclear codes.
Source: The HillHere s the video:President Obama is right.
The very fact that Trump can t even be trusted with his Twitter account means that he d be a very dangerous president.
He seems incapable of letting even the tiniest slight go.
In one now infamous Twitter rant, Trump relentlessly attacked former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, all during a time he was fielding accusations of sexism.The New York Times summed Trump s impulse control issues, which are demonstrated on Twitter, pretty well:The tirade fit a pattern.
It is when Mr. Trump is alone with his thoughts, and untethered from his campaign staff, that he has seemed to commit his most self-destructive acts.
There has always been this dangerous part of him that will go too far and do something that backfires, said Michael D Antonio, the author of The Truth About Trump, a new biography of the real estate mogul.
His worst impulses, he added, are self-defeating.
Unfortunately, it s not just the nuclear codes we should be afraid of.
Trump is running for the office of one of the premier diplomats in the world.
His temperament is completely unfit for that position, or really, for any position that requires dealing with people.Featured image via Brian Blanco/Getty Images.