There are too many people in our society who find the idea of two people of the same gender kissing, holding hands, and even being in love just too disgusting for words.
These would be our bigots the ones who are working feverishly on keeping the LGBTQ community down by dehumanizing them, and painting them as an evil in our society.These people s hatred led to Omar Mateen killing 49 people in the Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
A Facebook post, which ends with, You weren t the gunman, but you re the culture that built him.
You re the bullets in his gun, is the sheer, naked truth of the situation.There are those who are angry about the politicization of Orlando.
If those people would wake up to what s really happening, they d see that it was political from the start.Why?
Because we have all of this bigotry coming from our very own lawmakers, pundits, and analysts, who want that bigotry codified in law so they can stay on top of their golden pedestals.
We have pastors and other religious leaders who are celebrating what happened in Orlando.
And they think they haven t contributed to this?
Here are the faces of some of those people, complete with a simple phrase that adds to the power of the above post:Furthermore, the LGBTQ community has been assaulted over and over, by the same cold-blooded fuckery that caused Orlando, with GOP presidential candidates opposition to marriage equality, too: I support same sex civil unions but to me, and millions like me, marriage is a religious service not a government form.
Ben Carson I have already introduced a constitutional amendment to preserve the authority of elected state legislatures to define marriage as the union of one man and one woman, and also legislation stripping the federal courts of jurisdiction over legal assaults on marriage.
Ted Cruz Throughout the millennia and in every religion in the world, marriage has a very specific meaning.
Marriage is a institution [sic] grounded in spirituality.
It is the union of a man and a woman, and from that union comes life, and life is a gift from God.
Carly Fiorina We must resist and reject judicial tyranny, not retreat.
This ruling is not about marriage equality, it s about marriage redefinition.
This irrational, unconstitutional rejection of the expressed will of the people in over 30 states will prove to be one of the court s most disastrous decisions, and they have had many.
Mike Huckabee [Obergefell] will pave the way for an all out assault against the religious freedom rights of Christians who disagree with this decision.
This ruling must not be used as pretext by Washington to erode our right to religious liberty.
Bobby Jindal I am disappointed the Supreme Court today chose to change the centuries old definition of marriage as between one man and one woman.
I m a firm believer in traditional marriage, and I also believe the 10th Amendment leaves it to each state to decide this issue.
I fundamentally disagree with the court rewriting the law and assaulting the 10th Amendment.
Rick Perry We have to reclaim marriage as an institution that s not about two adults or more than two adults.
That it s about children.
Marriage has always been about children.
Rick SantorumAnd last, and we certainly wish least, Donald Trump: I would strongly consider [appointing justices to overrule the decision on same-sex marriage.]
Then there s North Carolina s bathroom law, and Governor Pat McCrory, who defended it by saying it was a privacy issue.
Yes, privacy for everyone except transgender people.
One has to wonder if residents of North Carolina have to carry their birth certificates with them now.There was also Florida governor Rick Scott, who refused to acknowledge Orlando as an anti-LGBTQ hate crime in addition to an act of terrorism.
He said Florida s LGBTQ community can engage in the oh-so-effective practice of prayer if they want to be safe.We had Kim Davis, who refused to abide by the Obergefell decision and who the religious community celebrated for standing up for the right to discriminate.
The same is true of Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore.
They re seen as champions of religious freedom, rather than the purveyors of hate they really are.What all of this does is tell ordinary citizens that it s just peachy keen for them to be hateful and evil towards the LGBTQ community.
It also causes severe self-loathing in people who try to subscribe to those beliefs, but are LGBTQ and still in the closet.
When these things reach the breaking point and explode, they do so violently, as they did in Orlando.
You re the bullets in his gun.
Yes, they all were.
They don t have to be Mateen, or anybody else who commits a hate crime against the LGBTQ community, to be responsible for this.Featured image by Gerardo Mora/Getty Images