Nobody would have ever said this about any of our previous presidents.
Nobody.But because President Obama and his family are black, Fox News host Sean Hannity is trying to get in as much hateful racist talk as possible before the Obamas leave the White House in January.And when President Obama leaves office, Hannity is offering to arrange for a one-way trip to Kenya for him and his family in response to a non-response the White House had to a satirical article claiming that Obama wants to move to Canada if Donald Trump wins the election on November 8th.
Remember how Democrats insisted last week that we all need to be united behind whoever wins the election?
Hannity began.
Well, I guess that only applies if Donald Trump loses because apparently the president cannot bring himself to say that he ll unite behind the Trump presidency.
Hannity talked about how a White House aide failed to deny rumors that President Barack Obama was planning to leave the United States if Trump wins the election, and then offered to send President Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, and their two daughters to Africa as long as they don t come back.
I ll pay hang on a second, I m offering I ll even rent a plane as big as Air Force One.
[ ] I have an offer for the president.
I will charter a plane for you and your family.
I will make sure it s as big a plane as Air Force One, what you have grown accustomed to, in other words.
Taxpayer-funded plane.
I don t know where I m going to get Maybe I ll just Maybe I ll ask Trump if I can charter his plane for Obama.
That s what I will charter Donald Trump s plane if he ll let me, and I will charter it to the country of your choice.
You want to go to Canada?
I ll pay for you to go to Canada.
You want to go to Kenya?
I ll pay for you to go to Kenya.
Jakarta, where you went to school back in the day, you can go back there.
Anywhere you want to go.
I m gonna I ll put the finest food, caviar, champagne, you name it.
I have one stipulation: you can t come back.
That s fair.
Here s the audio via YouTube.First of all, President Obama has already stated that he will peacefully transfer the presidency to Donald Trump in January should he actually win on Election Day.
In fact, President Obama will even attend the inauguration.Second, every president in the modern era has had full use of Air Force One no matter where they go during their presidency.
And it has always been taxpayer funded.
Even when George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan took those 880 days of vacation during their presidencies combined while President Obama has only taken 217 days of vacation.
So if Hannity wants to pretend that President Obama is somehow freeloading off of the taxpayers by using Air Force One, he should probably get all of the facts first.Furthermore, President Obama was NOT born in Kenya.
His father was, but President Obama was born in Hawaii to an American mother and is a natural-born American citizen.
His wife Michelle and their daughters were also born in the United States.Hannity s offer is disrespectful and hearkens back to a time when racists wanted to send blacks back to Africa just to keep America white.Fox News should be embarrassed that this jackass is still on their payroll, much less on their airwaves.Featured Image: Screenshot