Here are a few facts:Sexual violence in Germany has reached epidemic proportions since Chancellor Angela Merkel allowed into the country more than one million mostly male migrants from Africa, Asia and the Middle East.Gatestone Institute first reported Germany s migrant rape crisis in September 2015, when Merkel opened up the German border to tens of thousands of migrants stranded in Hungary.
A follow-up report was published in March 2016, in the aftermath of mass attacks against German women by mobs of migrants in Cologne, Hamburg and other German cities.Germany s migrant rape crisis has now spread to cities and towns in all 16 of Germany s federal states.
Germany is effectively under siege; public spaces are becoming increasingly perilous.
Police have warned about a potential breakdown of public order this summer, when young male migrants are likely to see women lightly dressed.During the month of July 2016, hundreds of German women and children were sexually assaulted by migrants (see Appendix below).
The youngest victim was nine; the oldest, 79.
Attacks occurred at beaches, bike trails, cemeteries, discotheques, grocery stores, music festivals, parking garages, playgrounds, schools, shopping malls, taxis, public transportation (buses, trams, intercity express trains and subways), public parks, public squares, public swimming pools and public restrooms.
Predators are lurking everywhere; safety nowhere.Dozens of women and children have been assaulted by migrants at summer festivals and public swimming pools staples of ordinary German life.Germany officially unveiled a landmark social-media bill Wednesday that could quickly turn this nation into a test case in the effort to combat the spread of fake news and hate speech in the West.The highly anticipated draft bill is also highly contentious, with critics denouncing it as a curb on free speech.
If passed, as now appears likely, the measure would compel large outlets such as Facebook and Twitter to rapidly remove fake news that incites hate, as well as other criminal content, or face fines as high as 50 million euros ($53 million).Chancellor Angela Merkel s cabinet agreed on the draft bill Wednesday, giving it a high chance of approval in the German Parliament before national elections in September.
In effect, the move is Germany s response to a barrage of fake news during last year s elections in the United States, with officials seeking to prevent a similar onslaught here.Already, a few fake news reports have emerged in Germany.
One falsely alleged that a German girl of Russian descent was raped last year by asylum seekers.
Repeated by high-level Russian officials, the reports seemed aimed at Merkel s open-door policy for refugees.Merkel is now involved in a strenuous campaign for a fourth term in office.
The providers of social networks are responsible when their platforms are misused to spread hate crime or illegal false news, German Justice Minister Heiko Maas said in a statement.The proposed law would apply only within German borders.
But Maas said Wednesday he would press for similar measures across the European Union.
Washington Post