The parents at a Southern California elementary school just got their minds blown when they heard that a complete stranger had decided to pay for their kindergarten-age children to go to college.Navy vet and Fullerton lawyer Marty Burbank and his wife were the people who selflessly decided to abandon their dreams of buying the $1 million boat they met and got married on to put 26 kindergarteners at the Rio Vista Elementary School through college.When 51-year-old Burbank told kindergarten teacher Tessa Ashton his plan to ensure that each one of her kindergarteners would receive a college education, she could hardly believe it.
Ashton said that the news forced her to give her young students a lesson about happy tears because they couldn t understand her powerful reaction to the news.
She said: He cried and I cried.
And the kids got really concerned because they ve never seen me cry!
You don t walk into moments like that very often so it was kind of a magical thing.
Burbank had met Ashton several years ago when they were both attending a service day at the Placentia-Yorba Linda Unified School District campus.
Since then, he d donated tons of supplies to the elementary school such as a thousand notebooks and snacks for the children.
Burbank noticed that one of the rooms had a display of college flags, and the image stuck with him.
Burbank knew he could change these children s lives in a bigger way than simply donating supplies.
He said: They don t come from families where anybody has had an opportunity to go to college.
And college is not something that the parents talk to the kids about.
Burbank was inspired to forgo his plan to buy the sentimental boat after he heard a sermon about giving.
Burbank, who d been sailing since he was a toddler, said: Sailing has been a big part of my life.
(But) the boat seemed like a real selfish thing to me at that point.
This is something significant that I think is going to impact a lot more people than just me.
Burbank s wife, Seon Chun-Burbank, was more than on board with the idea.
She had come from a family who could never afford a college education, and said it was only because of her aunt s financial support that she became a first-generation college graduate.
She explained: I like the movie Pay It Forward.
I got a lot of help and now I m helping others.
And I hope they can do that too.
You can listen to Burbank talk about his amazing act of kindness below:The kids are more than enthusiastic about their new future.
Six-year-old Jessyca Resendiz said, College is a big place and there is a fountain.
It has a big cafeteria that has coffee and bread.
Resendiz has plans to be a doctor, and because of Burbank and his wife, she ll get to fulfill that dream.One of the kindergartener s parents, Silvia Escobar, revealed that she had only completed second grade and didn t have the opportunity that her son would have thanks to Burbank s kindness.
She said, May God bless him always for helping people who truly need his help.
There are no words.
Burbank s gift is for each child to receive two years of community college, and two years at a university in California.
Burbank will also cover the cost of the children s books.
With inflation taken into account, the lawyer estimates that it will take approximately $1 million to cover the kindergarteners tuition and expenses, beginning in 2032.On Monday, the Burbanks received thank-you cards from the students, but the knowledge that there will be education in each child s future is enough for the couple.
There s just one catch the parents are to keep the Burbanks up to date on their children s academics and the students must submit a picture or essay about what they would like to be when they grow up every year.
Burbanks, who has now decided to postpone his retirement, said: I d rather not have a boat and get these kids through school.
Maybe one day they ll buy me a boat.
Featured image is a screenshot