While speaking in Fargo, North Dakota, Ted Cruz pandered directly to his audience by fear-baiting them with absolute malarkey.
He went on and on about the Supreme Court and who the next justice needs to be to replace the recently departed Antonin Scalia.His words are absolute BS, but unfortunately you know so many eat it up out of fear and simply not knowing any better.
After all, the Republican party needs its base as uniformed as possible to fill their minds with vile nonsense so they vote against their best interests.Regarding the Court, Cruz said: You know, just a few weeks ago with the passing of Justice Scalia, it underscored the stakes of this election, and it is not one, but two branches of the federal government that hang in the balance.
We are one liberal Justice away from a radical five justice majority the likes of which this country s never seen.
Because you know, a five Justice conservative majority hasn t at all been radical .
Cruz continues: We are one justice away from the Supreme Court effectively stripping religious liberty from Americans all across this country.
What?
No, seriously what?
Unless someone from the government were to come into your home as a private citizen or protected place of worship and tell you not to worship how you do, religious liberty is still there.
No one is stripping anything, except for the freedom to use religion to legally discriminate.
If you serve the public, you abide by public laws, including equal protection under the law.Cruz didn t stop there though, he continues: We are one justice away from the Court effectively erasing the Second Amendment from the Bill of Rights.
Abiding by the well-regulated part of the Second Amendment and holding true to its truest intent is not erasing the Second Amendment.
However, if we re gonna get real about the necessity of the Second Amendment, which was originally written to amend Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution so that all state-run militias will have the capability of being armed and trained when called forth by the Republic in time of need (see also: Whiskey Rebellion), perhaps we should look if the Second Amendment should either be amended or replaced to fit modern needs.
That s just common sense, though, and something many would rather ignore.Cruz s pi ce de r sistance is when he says: We are one Justice away from the Supreme Court making us subject to the world court and the United Nations and international law and giving up U.S. sovereignty.
What the actual f*ck?
How is abiding by international law and treaties to be well-respected around the world giving up U.S. sovereignty?
Does he want to rule with an iron fist?
Does he want to be dominant and bully nation s we need to continue diplomatic relations with?
Cruz is proving now, more than ever, that he s not ready to be Commander-in-Chief, because he literally doesn t know how to be a world leader.Cruz s talk is dangerous and it holds no place in reality.
He is talking out of his ass like some bizarre GOP freak show and he needs to be held accountable for his words and actions.
How do we do that?
Make sure he doesn t win the White House vote blue no matter who..@tedcruz: "We are one justice away from the Court effectively erasing the 2nd Amendment from the Bill of Rights.
"https://t.co/rbJle5NtMm Fox News (@FoxNews) April 2, 2016Featured image via video screen capture