With the whirlwind of information coming at us about Paul Manafort s indictment, Trump s allcaps claim that their was NO COLLUSION, a former advisor s admission of collusion, and all the other devastating shit happening to Team Trump today, the American public is missing one crucial detail: this is all happening on Ivanka Trump s birthday.Daddy s Little Girl was born on October 30, 1981 and the FBI got her a present: the first of many boots that will be dropping on her father s administration.This has to be particularly worrisome for poor, dear, sweet Ivanka, whose husband is also under investigation in Muellergate.As of 3 PM EST, only one post was on Ivanka s Twitter a self-defensive birthday note from her daughter she attempted to use to excuse herself for forgetting her sister Tiffany s birthday.Arabella:"Dear Mom, thank you for giving me birth."
Clearly, I'm not the only member of my family who doesn't understand how birthdays work?
pic.twitter.com/fQbAvdtFQ4 Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) October 30, 2017Americans were nice enough to pop by and wish her a happy birthday:Paul Manafort is off to prison & probably has a few stories to tell about your family may you reap what you sow this coming year Ivanka??
Katie Dutch (@kitscheart) October 30, 2017Maybe the prison kitchen will serve champagne ice pops on Ivanka's birthday, once she is incarcerated Michelle Y (@MY19641) October 30, 2017Happy birthday someone's going to jail today!
What do you get a traitor for their birthday?
pic.twitter.com/56Xicg6QkZ Ryan Graney (@RyanEGraney) October 30, 2017HAPPY indictment day too, Congrats Mr MUELLER pic.twitter.com/boF9q05ayz Bonnie (@BonitaTeuben) October 30, 2017 ?
pic.twitter.com/5CB3bkxivu Alan Parker (@AlanLondonCity) October 30, 2017Mueller understands how birthdays work.
He is a boss gift-giver.
Elizabeth Soutter (@damomma) October 30, 2017The little sweetie got indictments for her birthday!
What a lucky girl!
Jen Skelly (@Jenlskelly) October 30, 2017Paul Manafort and Rick Gates have both pleaded not guilty to their respective crimes and former campaign aide George Papadopoulos cut a secret plea deal in which he admitted to lying about the Trump campaign s outreach to Russian officials regarding a meeting between Trump and Putin and collecting dirt on Hillary Clinton.It s clear that Mueller is accelerating his probe into the Trump campaign s collusion with Russia, and it must really ruin Ivanka s day that they ll probably be coming for Jared soon.Featured image via Andy Katz, MBR