A giddy Wisconsin Republican Congressman was perhaps still buzzing from Ted Cruz s victory in the state s primary when he accidentally let the cat out of the bag about his party s use of voter ID laws.
Speaking with a reporter at Serb Hall, where Cruz delivered his victory speech, Rep. Glenn Grothman said he was very confident about his party s chances in November because they have voter ID laws as the ace up their sleeve.For those wondering why this is a big deal, please remember that Republicans have repeatedly tried to keep this obvious fact under the radar.
Thanks to Grothman the bell has been rung.
The genie is out of the bottle.
Republicans are using racist and discriminatory laws of their own design to keep Democrats away from the polls as a pillar of their election strategy.When asked about a Republican nominee s chances in a general election, Grothman didn t hesitate to give credit where it was due: His party s efforts to make it harder to vote.
Well, I think Hillary Clinton is about the weakest candidate the Democrats have ever put up and now we have photo ID.
I think photo ID is going to a little bit of a difference as well.
This confirms what many political observers have been saying all along.
The Republicans who push for stronger voter ID laws under the pretext to stop (nonexistent) voter fraud are using it as a cudgel to strongarm Democratic voters out of the voting booths.
Given the fact that these laws almost invariably affect poor, often minority voters, this means two things: Democrats are being prevented for voting for the candidates who they would like to, and Republicans can continue to ignore the plight of the poor because they have been systematically disenfranchised.It s particularly unsurprising that a state run by a guy like Gov.
Scott Walker (R) would have lawmakers actively salivating about disenfranchising people.
His administration has never been one to dwell on actual democracy.
A deeply unpopular governor, Walker managed to escape a strong impeachment effort by flooding his recall opposition campaign warchest with out-of-state dollars from conservative groups.
It s Walker s administration which has been the most passionate about getting Voter ID laws in place: Their jobs literally depend on it.Thanks to Rep. Grothman, we know now without question that this is an intentional tactic used by a quickly disintegrating political party to cling onto power.Featured image via YouTube