A Wisconsin man who believed it to be his CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY to kill the President was convicted last week of two counts of threatening Barack Obama.
After four hours of deliberations, a jury of seven men and five women found 55-year-old Brian Dennis Dutcher guilty of writing a Facebook comment about assassinating the President upon learning of an upcoming visit, and of telling a security guard he would shoot Obama the day before POTUS arrival in Tomah.In comments under a Facebook post in which he informed people that all members of the fed gov have targets on their foreheads, and that they should be shot on sight, Dutcher gleefully remarked that the upsurper is coming HERE.
saving me a 800 mile trip.
Dutcher explained that he planned to kill the President so his daughter can live free.
That s it!
Thursday I will be in La Crosse.
Hopefully I will get a clear shot at the pretend president, he said in another post that was deleted before we had a chance to snag a screenshot in June.
Killing him is our CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY!
In numerous other posts, Dutcher discussed killing the President, even expressing a desire for the Secret Service to step out of the way long enough for someone like him to take the shot so the President could be exucuted.
Dutcher also said that he had a stockpile of fully automatic weapons and ammunitions, as well as plastic explosives, mortars, and other things that would make any NRA member s pants tighten a bit.With all that heavy equipment, it was shocking that Dutcher was arrested with After Tough Guy s arrest on July 2, Dutcher told Secret Service that he meant what he said, and he absolutely intended to use the slingshot to kill the usurper.
Dutch was detained for 24 hours at a mental health facility in La Crosse, where he threatened the staff and accused them of helping the tyrant.
He was then moved to Dane County Jail.
He said he was very accurate with a slingshot, Secret Service Special Agent Jeffrey Ferris testified.
His true intention was to circumvent security and figure out how to shoot (Obama) with a slingshot.
Dutcher told police that he had hunted animals with the slingshot and that he could kill a human with it.
He also referenced the Biblical story of David and Goliath, with Obama apparently being the latter in the tale.Dennis the Menace Dutcher is due to be sentenced for his crimes in March.
He faces up to five years in prison for each count, so he may have a long time to sit in the corner and think about what he did.Featured image via Wisconsin State Journal/Wikimedia Commons