Politicians have been known to do a lot of things to get elected.
They usually cater and pander to a group of people who they think will have the best chance at casting a vote in their favor.
In the case of Republican presidential candidate Senator Ted Cruz, those he s decided to cater to are the residents of Idiot America.Cruz has decided to go all in trying to get the ultra-religious, absent from reality, guns and God group of folks who love to hunt, hate gay people and live far away from populated areas.
People otherwise known as extreme, right-wing Republicans.Perfectly pandering to this demographic, Cruz paired himself up with Duck Dynasty and their bigot-in-chief Phil Robertson.
Robertson is about as anti-gay and bigoted as one could ever hope to be, so of course he s now endorsed one of the leading bigot candidates running for president Ted Cruz.In a new campaign commercial for Cruz, Robertson, with his face painting black camo for hunting, tells everyone the qualifications he wants to see in a president: Is he or she godly?
Does he or she love us?
Can he or she do the job?
And finally, would they kill a duck and put em in a pot and make up a good duck gumbo?
I ve looked at the candidates.
Ted Cruz is my man.
(Let s just pause for a second and acknowledge that Robertson said he or she.
Got to at least give credit where credit is due)Now, as far as Cruz being the man for the job of President of the United States?
Yeah, not so much.
He s a smarmy man who will say or do anything to get his way.
This includes, but is not limited to, likely not even being as religious as he says he is, or as constitutional as he claims to be.Cruz tends to do things for show, and no greater example of this can be seen than in this very commercial where he puts on blackface, pardon me, hunting camo paint that looks remarkably like blackface and someone should have told him that, and sits down to hold his gun and hunt with Robertson.Cruz is all like, Look at me!
I m just like you!
I like to hunt and play make-believe Rambo, too!
Ignore the fact that I m insanely wealthy and married to Goldman Sachs!
Vote for me!
He knows exactly what he is doing.
He s a smart guy, gotta give him that much, which also makes him irrefutably dangerous.
He knows how to play the game, get what he wants, and he doesn t seem to care who might get hurt along the way.However, this ad right here, as funny as it may be, because it s pretty goddamn funny, also show to the depths he ll go to cater to a specific voter population.
In this case, idiot America.
Video/Featured image: YouTube