Since Donald Trump is the presumptive GOP nominee for president, and the Democratic primary season isn t nearly as close to over as the Republican primary season, Trump ought to be spending his time trying to unite his party and gather as much support as possible.
Instead, he s still acting like he s in the thick of the primaries.At a rally in Anaheim, he attacked South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley for endorsing Marco Rubio; Jeb Bush for having low energy (what?
); and Mitt Romney for being a choker.
He also said that Romney was stupid, and choked like a dog.
What month are we in now?
He thinks it s still January, apparently.Those three haven t endorsed him yet, so obviously, in Trump s dimension, the way to get their endorsements is to alienate them.
House Speaker Paul Ryan still hasn t endorsed Trump either, and Trump has been busy been attacking him on his favorite social media platform, Twitter.
One has to wonder how he thinks he ll be well-positioned to win the presidency and work with Congress if the Speaker of the U.S. House can t stand him.At a rally in New Mexico on Tuesday, he attacked New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez because she wouldn t endorse him too.
Martinez is the first Latina governor in U.S. history, the first female governor of New Mexico, and chair of the Republican Governors Association.
He slammed Martinez on Tuesday night, saying: We have got to get your governor to get going.
She s got to do a better job.
Okay?
Your governor has got to do a better job.
She s not doing the job.
Hey!
Maybe I ll run for governor of New Mexico.
I ll get this place going.
She s not doing the job.
We ve got to get her moving.
Come on: Let s go, governor.
He went on to lie about New Mexico getting flooded with Syrian refugees, and basically acting like Martinez is his opponent.
It s sad, and also hilarious in a way, because one would think he d want to secure as many endorsements as possible now, especially those of people as important as Martinez and Paul Ryan.Trump doesn t even hear the GOP s calls for him to try and unite the party they may as well not exist.
He thinks unity is a nice pipe dream, but not necessary for him, and really, who cares about healing rifts that run across the entire U.S., right?
It s the same with the calls for him to act more presidential.
He s stuck in the past.
Either that, or he s out for the blood of everyone who s ever wronged him, which is likely the reason he s stuck in the past.Soon, he s going to have to face off against either Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders.
What will he do then, should he still have some prominent Republicans who continue to refuse to endorse him?
General election season will be mighty interesting if he doesn t get with the program here.
More than 60 percent of Americans already view him unfavorably, and this attitude could further alienate Republicans and Democrats alike.
Too bad for our dear Mr. Trump.Image by Spencer Platt/Getty Images