This is a sad commentary on a generation who has truly lost their moral compass.
No self respect, dignity or pride It s all about the 15 seconds of fame While we have yet to fathom how for almost three minutes, no one not even an adult or an employee stopped a now infamous fight inside a Brooklyn McDonald s. So far, one arrest has been made.
Sixteen-year-old Aniah Ferguson was one of six girls who attacked 15-year-old Ariana Taylor and it seemed every teenager inside the McDonald s was there to witness the violent carnage, for which they also captured cell phone video.The 15-year-old did her best to hold her own in the brawl, which was allegedly arranged via Facebook.
New York Daily News is reporting that Taylor has taken to Facebook to brag about her new-found fame.
A user named Richey Bandz commented on Taylor s social media, saying, I applaud u shorty u a ICON NOW, and Taylor responded, Thanks guys.
And that s when another user, Marshonna Espinosa said, So sad this little girl think she s getting famous for getting publicly humiliated.
No, you re not famous.
People felt bad for you.
We re not so sure NY Daily News and Marshonna s assumptions around Taylor thinking she s famous are anything but assumptions.
When Taylor posted a photo of herself, not to beat up, with the caption, I m Gucci, we took it as her addressing the concerned public and letting us all know she s good.Reports claim that Ferguson had been hunting Taylor down since January for some undisclosed disagreement involving a friend.
She suffered injuries and was taken to Kings County Hospital that same night.
But once the video was shared massively online, and even covered the front page of the New York Post and Daily News (though their known for exploiting situations like this), moves were made to find the girls who are also students of Erasmus Hall High School.
Even for a World Star Hip-Hop era, the clip shocked most who viewed it.
The 15-year-old was literally a punching and kicking bag.
***Warning**** This video contains extreme violence:After Ferguson s arrest yesterday, her criminal record leaked and she has a history of violence at only 16.
Before, she was arrested for stabbing her brother and assaulting her grandmother, who had to take an order of protection against her grandchild.
She s had a total of nine arrests, six of them have been since September.
Ferguson is unfortunately epitomizing the image and lifestyle of troubled youth.
From her latest felony, she s being charged as an adult.
Obviously there s a bigger story here around teenagers like Ferguson who come from troubled pasts and bring that into their present lives, allowing nothing but violence to speak for them.Via: Hello Beautiful