In case you hadn t heard, Obama signed a new UN development plan to make America a socialist nation by 2030.
Yes, it s true and the UN is celebrating by unveiling a statue celebrating our global citizenship .
Here are a few of the important points in the plan that spell out the shared responsibility with the globe and then information below about the statue in NYC: Communists say that Socialism is the stepping stone to Communism, and the UN 2030 Sustainable Development agenda won t fail to disappoint them.
Socialism hinges on several economic factors which coincide with sustainable development goals.
They are universal healthcare, universal education, universal employment, and wealth redistribution.
All of these are outlined clearly in the UN agreement.For example on the subject of universal healthcare, on page 6, section 26 of Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in the section titled The New Agenda it states:26.
To promote physical and mental health and well-being, and to extend life expectancy for all, we must achieve universal health coverage and access to quality health care.
No one must be left behind.
We commit to accelerating the progress made to date in reducing newborn, child and maternal mortality by ending all such preventable deaths before 2030.
We are committed to ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family planning, information and education.This goal is also repeated as Sustainable Development Goal #3, page 14, section 3.8:3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all.As it pertains to wealth redistribution and universal employment the proof is found on page 7, section 27:27.
We will seek to build strong economic foundations for all our countries.
Sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth is essential for prosperity.
This will only be possible if wealth is shared and income inequality is addressed.
We will work to build dynamic, sustainable, innovative and people-centred economies, promoting youth employment and women s economic empowerment, in particular, and decent work for all.Universal employment is also mentioned on page 12 as Sustainable Development Goal #8:Goal 8.
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.The last time I read the words shared responsibility it was when I discovered that the Obamacare fine imposed by the IRS for failing to have health insurance was called the Individual Shared Responsibility Payment.
While I thought this had to be a veiled reference to some Marxist dictator s quote, it now appears that it has more to do with the Progressive globalization movement.This weekend the United Nations is set to celebrate its 70th anniversary.
As apart of those celebrations the U.N. will unveil a new work of art in New York City titled Enlightened Universe.
The U.N. claims this new sculpture is all about Global Citizenship and Shared Responsibility: In celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations, a monumental art installation entitled Enlightened Universe will be unveiled on Saturday, 24 October, at 4:30 p.m. at the Rumsey Playfield in Central Park.
The installation created by Spanish artist Crist bal Gabarr n is presented by The Gabarron Foundation in partnership with the United Nations.The commemorative work of art depicts 70 life-size figures joined in hand around a central globe, creating a human chain of global citizenship, respect for nature and shared responsibility.
The sphere measures 6,371 millimetres in diameter to correspond to the Earth s average radius of 6,371 kilometres.
The 70 figures represent the 70 years of the United Nations.
Rumsey Playfield, where the sculpture is to be erected, is an area of the Central Park where concerts and other events are held.Considering that the new United Nations Sustainable Development Plan calls for the United States to become a Socialist nation by 2030, it s not surprising that Obamacare, which was designed to push the U.S. towards government run healthcare, and the United Nations, would share the same collectivist, albeit Marxist, vocabulary.Via: Progressives Today