21st Century Wire says Four people, including a teacher and two students, have been shot at an elementary school in San Bernardino, California.
The incident is believed to have been a murder-suicide, according to police.
The shooting stemmed from a domestic violence situation.The shooting occurred in a classroom at North Park School.
Along with the three victims, the suspect is believed to be down as well, according to San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan.We believe this to be a murder suicide.
Happened in a class room.
Two students have been transported to the hospital.
Chief Jarrod Burguan (@SBPDChief) April 10, 2017Two adults are deceased in a classroom, believed to be a murder suicide.
We believe the suspect is down and there's no further threat.
Chief Jarrod Burguan (@SBPDChief) April 10, 2017Two adults a man and a woman are dead in the classroom, and police believe the suspect is down and there s no further threat, Burguan said.The gunman checked in with the front office, where he was known to school staff, San Bernardino Police Captain Ron Maass said.The two students were transported to the hospital, one via helicopter and the other in an ambulance, a police spokesman told reporters.
They are in critical condition.
The children we do not believe were targeted, the spokesman said.The fire department has set up a triage to assess and treat victims at the scene.
Law enforcement was on the scene within seven minutes of the shooting.The San Bernardino County Sheriff s Department is assisting in the investigation.
The school will be closed for at least the next two days, police said.North Park, Cajon and Hillside Elementary Schools are on lockdown, while the San Bernardino campus of California State University is under a shelter-in-place order.Students were evacuated to Cal State San Bernardino, while parents were told to pick them up at Cajon High School.
They must be listed on the students emergency contact forms and show photo ID.This is the second mass shooting in the southern California city in since December 2015.
In that incident, which was later categorized as an act of terrorism, a married couple opened fire on a holiday party for the husband s work, killing 14 and injuring 21.Initially had a replay of the deeply disturbing feeling of terror and dread felt on Dec2nd 15 when I turned scanner on today.
#PTSDAwareness https://t.co/ee0XzukcXb Darren Espiritu (@SBDarren) April 10, 2017 Tragedy has struck us again, and we need to now work through that and be there for all of the involved parties, the San Bernardino PD said.San Bernardino experienced a surge in violence in 2016, including a 41 percent increase in homicides over the previous year.
The 62 slayings made 2016 the city s deadliest year since 1995, the Los Angeles Times reported Continue this report at RT READ MORE US NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire US FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV