Is our Community Organizer In Chief being tested by Putin?The air is frigid and the wind is howling as Air Force Col. Frank Flores lifts a pair of foot-long binoculars and studies a hazy dot about 50 miles west across the Bering Strait.
That s the mainland there, he shouts above the gusts.It s Siberia, part of Russia, on the Asian mainland.Named for an old mining camp, Tin City is a tiny Air Force installation atop an ice-shrouded coastal mountain 50 miles below the Arctic Circle, far from any road or even trees.
The Pentagon took over the remote site decades ago and built a long-range radar station to help detect a surprise attack from the Soviet Union.At least from this frozen perch, America s closest point to Vladimir Putin s Russia, the Cold War is turning warm again.U.S.
F-22 fighter jets scrambled about 10 times last year twice as often as in 2013 to monitor and photograph Russian Tu-95 Bear bombers and MiG-31 fighter jets that flew over the Bering Sea without communicating with U.S. air controllers or turning on radio transponders, which emit identifying signals.The Russian flights are in international airspace, and it s unclear whether they are testing U.S. defenses, patrolling the area or simply projecting a newly assertive Moscow s global power.
They re obviously messaging us, said Flores, a former Olympic swimmer who is in charge of Tin City and 14 other radar stations scattered along the vast Alaskan coast.
We still don t know their intent.
U.S. officials view the bombers which have been detected as far south as 50 miles off California s northern coast as deliberately provocative.
They are a sign of the deteriorating ties between Moscow and the West since Russia s annexation of Ukraine s Crimea region in March of last year and its military intervention to support separatists in eastern Ukraine.Similar Russian flights in Europe have irked leaders in Britain, Ireland, Sweden, Norway and elsewhere.
In January, British authorities were forced to reroute commercial aircraft after Russian bombers flew over the English Channel with their transponders off.In all, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization says its jets scrambled to monitor Russian warplanes around Europe more than 100 times last year, about three times as many as in 2013.
Russian air patrols outside its borders were at their highest level since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, NATO said.Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said in a statement in November, as tensions heightened over Ukraine, that Russia s strategic bombers would resume patrols in both the Atlantic and the Pacific.
In the current situation we have to maintain military presence in the western Atlantic and eastern Pacific, as well as the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, he said.Although the Arctic draws less attention, Russia is flexing muscles there after years of decline.
President Vladimir Putin s government has announced plans to reopen 10 former Soviet-era military bases, including 14 airfields, that were shuttered along the Arctic seaboard after the Cold War.A shipyard in Severodvinsk, the largest city on the Russian Arctic Coast, has begun building four nuclear-powered submarines for the first time in decades, according to Russian news reports.
The Pentagon says the reports are accurate.The Pentagon has responded by spending $126 million last year to upgrade Tin City and other coastal radar stations in Alaska.
It also has added military exercises with northern allies including flying U.S. strategic bombers over the Arctic for the first time since 2011.Last week, four B-52s flew from bases in Nebraska and Louisiana on simultaneous, round-trip sorties to the Arctic and North Sea regions, the Air Force announced.
Along the way, the bomber crews engaged in air intercept maneuvers with fighter jets from Canada, England and the Netherlands.The Air Force has said it may base the first squadrons of next-generation F-35 fighter jets at Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska starting next year.The buildup comes as melting ice caps are opening valuable new sea lanes, sparking a scramble for oil and other untapped natural resources by the eight nations with territorial or maritime claims in the far north.
We re experiencing a reawakening of the strategic importance of the Arctic, said Navy Adm. William E. Gortney, commander of the Pentagon s Northern Command and of the North American Aerospace Defense Command.
Is this a second Cold War?
It doesn t matter what we think, Gortney said.
Maybe they think the Cold War never ended.
Via: LA Times