A group of about 1,000 Christians planned to attend next week s Reason Rally in Washington, D.C., so they could hand out literature and about $25,000 in Subway gift cards.
The purpose was to show the atheists that would be there some so-called Christian love.
However, the D.C. police have put a stop to that, saying they would have to get a separate permit, and stay on the other side of the National Mall, because such a gathering constitutes a protest.Organizer Ray Comfort told Christian NewsWire the following: In what is so often a cruel world, we tried to show a little kindness and it didn t work.
So it now looks like we will be eating Subway sandwiches for the next 40 years.
Oh, no.
What to do, what to do?
Comfort will still be allowed to film the event, because his film crew is too small to need a permit.
Since the Reason Rally is free and open to the public, Comfort is now encouraging Christians to go as individuals, and not as a group, so they can still proselytize to the atheists there.
That s their M.O.
force their religion down the throats of anyone who doesn t believe in any way possible.While Comfort can understand the perspective of the police they re trying to maintain peace there s a solid chance that there will be Christians there who don t get it at all, and only see their so-called mission from God, to convert these heathens.
For instance, Eric Hovind, writing on Creation Today, said: On June 4, 2016 we will be gathering in Washington, D.C. to share the love of Christ with a group of people who practice the religion of Selfianity.
That s right, they self identify as Atheists in order to become worshipers of themselves.
Oh, please.
Hovind is one of those that thinks atheists (and other non-Christians) are the root of what s wrong with the world.
He won t be the only one there to think that way, either.Hovind calls his blog post REASON hits the Reason Rally 2016, in a lame attempt to demonstrate that Christianity is the only reason there is.
He s one of those that will probably end up hounding the atheists that attend.There is one good thing to come out of this.
Some readers of The Friendly Atheist were able to convince Ray Comfort to give those Subway gift cards to the homeless.
That there is true Christian love helping the downtrodden.
They need to spend more time doing that, and less time trying to convert people to their religion and taking over the country.Featured image by Brambmanu.
Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Commons