The District of Columbia has won back-to-back Miss USA titles.Kara McCullough, a 25-year-old chemist working for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, was crowned Sunday at the Mandalay Bay Convention Center on the Las Vegas Strip.
She will go on to compete on the Miss Universe contest.The runner-up was Miss New Jersey Chhavi Verg, a student at Rutgers University studying marketing and Spanish.
The second runner-up was Miss Minnesota Meridith Gould, who is studying apparel retail merchandising at the University of Minnesota.Fifty-one women representing each state and the nation s capital participated in the decades-old competition.McCullough was born in Naples, Italy, and raised in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
She said she wants to inspire children to pursue careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics.Last year, District of Columbia resident Deshauna Barber became the first-ever military member to win Miss USA.The top five finalists where asked different questions that touched on the pros and cons of social media, women s rights and issues affecting teenagers.
McCullough was asked whether she thinks that affordable health care for all U.S. citizens is a right or a privilege.
McCullough said it is a privilege.Later in the competition, the McCullough, Verg and Gould were asked to explain what they consider feminism to be and whether they consider themselves feminists.
Miss District of Columbia said she likes to transpose the word feminism to equalism.
Watch: ABC Newshttps://youtu.be/muS063iEnIkMany Americans were cheering her response on Twitter:Miss USA is a wonderful role model!
Leave it to the nasty, sneering left to attack her b/c she doesn't fit their narrative.
@foxandfriends pic.twitter.com/CFmVdivTke Kristin Tate (@KristinBTate) May 15, 2017https://twitter.com/TEN_GOP/status/864121879837241345But many on the left were not as happy with the newly crowned Miss USA Kara McCullough.This Twitter user tells McCullough she doesn t deserve Miss USA 2017 title because she s not towing the liberal line:#MissUSAHealthcare = privilege!
loose a job ,ok to die bcs you don't deserve helpYou dont deserve Miss USA 2017!
Homes by Sylva (@sylvalisko) May 15, 2017TwitterThis Twitter user thought the results were rigged and should be decided by a democracy LOL!Retweet if you think #MissUSA was rigged!!!!!
OMG shouldn't MISS USA be decided by a democracy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
pic.twitter.com/TJXp0U5Yl4 Sarah Lauren (@sarahmlauren) May 15, 2017When McCullough said she d like to replace feminism with equality the triggered left immediately turned that comment into a negative, insisting that she doesn t believe in equality for women.Miss USA 2017 is a no for me she said she's against feminism and healthcare being a right?
pic.twitter.com/ihPGBslN7H Jon Snow (@justkriistel) May 15, 2017