Michelle Obama is arguably the strongest weapon Hillary Clinton s campaign has when it comes to fighting Donald Trump.
And according to President Obama, the GOP nominee has no one but himself to thank for her presence on the campaign trail.Speaking at a fundraiser for Clinton in California on Monday, Obama said there is one force driving the first lady to fight tooth and nail for Clinton: The possibility of a Trump presidency.
Some of you may be aware of the fact that Michelle does not really love politics, Obama said.
But the passion that she s brought to campaigning this time speaks to the degree that this election is different, the choice is different.
Obama said that when he was running against Sen. john McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012, he disagreed with them about many, many things.
But despite that, he still considered them to be honorable people.
I wasn t concerned about the Republic if they had won, Obama said.
And so part of the reason Michelle is working the way she is, is because she understands, as I understand, that some more fundamental values are at stake in this election.
It has to do with our basic standards of decency how do we treat people.
The president said that for the FLOTUS, the choices we are faced with in the 2016 election can be boiled down to this: Do we treat people who are of a different faith as part of the fabric of America, or do we label them as something foreign, not a real American, and thereby subject to different standards when it comes to how our laws apply?
And this: Do we think of women as equal and full citizens, capable of doing anything, or do we think of them as objects of either scorn or lust or our own satisfactions?
Do we think that government is something serious, that we have an obligation to make sure that to the best of our abilities we leave the country a little bit better off than how we found it, or do we think that it s an infomercial or a reality TV show, Obama continued.All of this has made one thing very clear to the first lady: Michelle s conclusion is, is that we can t have [Trump] in the Oval Office, Obama said.Featured image via Olivier Douliery-Pool/Getty Images