America s Diner Denny s, has lived up to that title if you are looking at it in the context of how much racism exists in the nation.
Henry Williams and Renee Hebert settled in a lawsuit against the company, that stemmed from an incident in 2014 when an L.A. Denny s forced them to prepay for their meal because they were ordering food while black.Williams was told by employees that he would have to hand over the cash in full to cover the meal before his group would be served.
Clearly, a group of black individuals going to a restaurant is suspicious enough to assume a conspiracy to do the dine and dash is in the works.
Surprisingly, Williams decided to actually hand over the money rather than take his business elsewhere.
Maybe he really likes the Moons Over My Hammy meal.The ridiculousness of this was so bad, that even the Denny s manager eventually realized how bad his people screwed up and tried to return the money.
The manager was so desperate to give the money back that Williams actually had to tell him to stop repeatedly coming over to their table to grovel and hand over the cash because he was being a nuisance.
The manager kicked it up a notch by offering free dessert, to which Williams said he wanted to box his food and leave.Williams and Hebert said that nobody else was asked to pre-pay for their meal.
In court, a customer that was seated nearby at the time testified that Williams and Hebert handled the situation well: They were black.
I m white.
I ve never been asked to prepay.
I thought it was appalling for someone in that year and time to be discriminated against like that.
Denny s tried to argue against the lawsuit because the customers order was a large one, and the location had other problems with people walking out on checks before.
It got pretty damning, though, when the other customer testifying on behalf of Williams said that they had seen the restaurant targeting other black patrons to pre-pay in weeks prior.
I bet not every case of these was a huge order.
Denny s already had a bad reputation in this area, because it had to pay $54 million in 1994 for a case of similar discrimination against black customers.The details of the settlement were not disclosed, but it would be a safe bet that it was more than the cost of a dine-and-dash.Featured image from wikicommons