The era of Roger Ailes at Fox News is definitely over after this devastating blow.Earlier this month, former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson revealed that she was no longer with the conservative network.
As it turns out, she had been fired by Roger Ailes because she refused to have a sexual relationship with him.Her lawsuit alleges that Ailes relentlessly ogled her and treated her like a sexual object in the workplace.
She faced constant sexual harassment from Ailes and her male colleagues and when she tried to get the harassment to stop Ailes told her it would all go away if she would just agree to let him have sex with her.
She declined, so Ailes fired her from Fox & Friends and moved her to an unpopular time slot with a pay reduction and more work in order to force her to submit to his demand.
After she continued to refuse, Ailes fired her from the network entirely.
I have strived to empower women and girls throughout my entire career, Carlson said in a statement.
Although this was a difficult step to take, I had to stand up for myself and speak out for all women and the next generation of women in the workplace.
But other women on Fox News were not as brave as Carlson.
They sided with Ailes and threw Carlson under the bus.But the most powerful woman on Fox News is no longer remaining quiet and that is bad news for Ailes.New York Magazine reports that Megyn Kelly has met with attorneys representing the Murdochs, who own Fox, and told them how Roger Ailes sexually harassed her when she was a correspondent for the network.According to two sources briefed on parent company 21st Century Fox s outside probe of the Fox News executive, led by New York based law firm Paul, Weiss, Kelly has told investigators that Ailes made unwanted sexual advances toward her about ten years ago when she was a young correspondent at Fox.
Kelly, according to the sources, has described her harassment by Ailes in detail.As New York Magazine notes, this is probably the reason why Kelly had remained silent in the wake of the scandal, waiting for the right time to strike.
And if the sources are accurate, Kelly just delivered the death blow to Ailes career with Fox.Ailes has reportedly been given an August 1st deadline to resign or he will be fired for just cause.And Murdoch s attorneys are not done investigating yet so there could be even more revelations to come.Meanwhile, the Paul, Weiss lawyers are attempting to interview former Fox employees who have stories of harassment but haven t spoken because they signed settlements with Ailes s Fox attorney, Dianne Brandi.
21st Century Fox is now waiving the NDAs to allow women to speak.If this report is correct it could spell the end of Roger Ailes at Fox News and that would be a good thing for everyone.
Now let s wait and see how many of Ailes female defenders start attacking Megyn Kelly.Featured image via Wikimedia