Grab your popcorn, everybody!
The Tea Party civil war has kicked off with an all-out battle of stupid between Glenn Beck and Sarah Palin.Their feud has raged largely under the radar since September when Beck fired the first salvo by calling the former half-term Alaska Governor a clown for talking to Donald Trump during an anti-Iran rally.
I m going to say it, Beck announced.
I don t care what Sarah Palin says any more.
Sarah Palin has become a clown.
I m embarrassed that I was once for Sarah Palin.
Honestly, I m embarrassed I don t know who she is any more, I don t know what she stands for.
I saw a clip of her talking to Donald Trump.
What the hell is that?
I don t even know who she is any more.
As we all know by now, Beck is a HUGE supporter of Republican presidential wannabe Ted Cruz, so of course that means anybody who doesn t support Cruz is dead to Beck.
And that included Palin.And when America s village idiot actually endorsed Trump in an incoherent rant that left everybody craving a Yosemite Sam cartoon, Beck went nuclear on Facebook.
Sarah Palin.
Small Government, lower taxes, fewer regulations and the constitution?
Not any more.
Big government Sad excuse to abandon principles.
Just because things don t go my way, I don t abandon God.
Saul Alinsky is wrong.
The ends do not justify the means.
But wait!
There s more!After a week in which Beck appeared with Cruz to get all teary eyed about Murica and how Cruz will rule the land with God on his right shoulder whispering in his ear what to do, Palin fired back at her former friend on Thursday.Writing on her Facebook page about Beck s love affair with a man she once shared the Tea Party with, Palin went after Beck on several fronts and did not show any mercy whatsoever.
Ted Cruz s star spokesman and campaign partner, Glenn Beck, promises he will support a socialist vs. the pro-life, pro-2nd amendment, pro-growth, pro-American GOP front runner what s conservative about that?
Palin began in reference to Beck saying he would support Bernie Sanders before he ever supports Trump.Then she pointed out that Beck once said that John McCain would have been worse for the country than President Obama.Palina also slammed Beck for proclaiming his hatred of the American victims of the 9/11 terrorists attacks, and then attacked Beck and Cruz for greeting immigrants at the border.In conclusion, Palin wrote:Beck is known for his continuous mocking of Americans who may disagree with his puzzling antics, while crying just last night, Why mock ME?
what s consistent about that?Beck will go ballistic after reading this post and will ramp up his unjustified attacks against Donald Trump, me, my faith, and you for acknowledging all this I ve outlined, in his own words what s smart about that?Here s her full post via Facebook.// < !
[CDATA[ // < !
[CDATA[ (function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); // ]]&gt;Ted Cruz s star spokesman and campaign partner, Glenn Beck, promises he will support a socialist vs. the pro-life, Posted by Sarah Palin on Thursday, February 18, 2016Palin just delivered a direct hit on Beck and now we all get to wait for his response, which probably won t be for too long.
And we can definitely expect Beck and Palin to continue their feud in the fight for which crazy GOP candidate gets to lose in November to Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders.These two were so much happier before they met other crazy people.
Featured image from Flickr/Flickr