If there s one thing that put the stupidity of Donald Trump s idiot supporters (and, to a slightly lesser extent, Jill Stein fans who also spent a lot of time pushing right-wing conspiracy theories) on full display, it s the Pizzagate nontroversy created by idiots for idiots in an attempt to damage Hillary Clinton.
The story goes that Hillary Clinton and John Podesta secretly run a child prostitution ring out of the basement of a Washington D.C. pizza shop that doesn t even have a basement.While most would roll their eyes at such a ridiculous tale, one crazed Trump fan barged into the Comet Ping Pong earlier this month guns blazing and feverishly searched for the nonexistent basement or the secret tunnels in which Hillary Clinton was keeping children captive to sell to anyone who wanted to make sexy time with them.
The shooter, who fortunately did not kill anyone, admits he got his news from the same place Trump does far-Right conspiracy theorist and professional liar Alex Jones of Infowars.
In fact, Jones told his audience to investigate the restaurant the same thing the shooter says he was doing in a video that was deleted shortly after the Trump ally realized people actually are stupid enough to listen to him.The conspiracy theor was also pushed by the son of Trump s incoming national security adviser (and now-former Trump transition team member) Michael Flynn Jr.Now, another Trump fan has decided that the demonstrably false story is real to him, damn it!
On Monday, a Philadelphia man barged into a Catholic church to accuse not only Hillary Clinton but Barack Obama of selling children for sex.
Howard Caplan a man who became internet-famous by walking around with a ridiculous Hillary 4 Prison sign during the election season and who goes by Deplorable4L n Twitter posted a video of him interrupting the service to scream incoherently about pizza and pedophilia.
Pizzagate is real!
Pizzagate is real!
Caplan yelled at shocked onlookers who were simply trying to enjoy church.
The Catholic Church has been sexually abusing children thousands of them for decades.
Pizzagate is real!
While he is correct that there is an epidemic of child molestation in the Catholic church, Caplan somehow fails to see that even in the most deranged versions of the Pizzagate story, the Church is uninvolved.In November, Caplan and an army of other stupid people traveled to Washington D.C. to protest Comet Ping Pong.
In an interview with the Philly Voice, he explained that the conspiracy goes above even Clinton, whom many believe to be the ringmaster of this fictitious child sex ring.Caplan explained that the emails are not the story.
According to him, the real story is a child pedophilia ring that goes all the way up to Obama.
Caplan claims to be a lifelong Democrat who converted to the Dark Side because he believes insane right-wing propaganda that only the dumbest people alive would believe.
Now, he says he hopes Trump will take care of Hillary once and for all: I m hoping Trump s just saying in his mind, That s fine, we won t get you on the emails but we ll hopefully get you on this.
This is way bigger than the emails anyway.
If he s really saying that he s not going to prosecute her to let her ride off into the sunset, people aren t going to go for that.
He will lose a lot of credibility.
Sadly, this is not an isolated thing where one lunatic caused a scene.
This conspiracy theory has gone mainstream among the Stupid Part of America.
It s almost gotten people killed.
And now, we will have four years with a President who genuinely believes all of it.Watch Caplan s outburst below:Getting a tour of @cometpingpong with James Alefantis.
I'm sick that it's sideways.
#pizzagate #littlelivesmatter https://t.co/x4KY2Mliqq FullyAwake12/4/16 (@Deplorable4L) November 23, 2016Featured image via Philly Voice/screengrab