According to insider, and author Edward Klein, Hillary took on Barack Obama over his involvement in exposing her email scandal several months ago.
Many Americans are wondering if Obama is stonewalling the FBI s investigation, or if in fact, he is encouraging the investigation, hoping it will take her down.
This isn t the first report of Hillary behaving in a manner that is, shall we say, un-presidential?
According to White House insiders, it seems that Bill has been on the receiving end of Hillary s rage more than once as well An enraged Hillary Rodham Clinton blew up at President Obama, demanding he call off your f king dogs looking into her emails during a tense Oval Office meeting, according to a new book.The book, Unlikeable: The Problem with Hillary, says the former first lady was furious at what she believed were damaging leaks by Obama aides that led to investigations of her use of a private email server as secretary of state.
So she went right to the top to settle the matter.Clinton requested a meeting with Obama, against the advice of hubby Bill Clinton, believing she was being persecuted for minor, meaningless violations, author Edward Klein writes.Clinton initially took a friendly approach during the meeting and Obama reacted as if he didn t know what she was talking about, the book claims.
He was almost being deliberately dense, a Clinton source said.
It really angered her.
Clinton lost her temper and called the president by his first name in an emotionally driven break with White House decorum, according to the book.
What I want for you to do is call off your f king dogs, Barack!
Clinton allegedly barked at Obama, according to Klein s account, which cited sources close to Clinton and Obama senior adviser Valerie Jarrett.The president was so stunned by Clinton s disrespectful demands, he needed a moment to compose himself, the book claims.Obama then responded, There is nothing I can do for you one way or another.
Things have been set in motion, and I can t and won t interfere.
Your problems are, frankly, of your own making.
If you had been honest .
.
.
Klein reports Clinton interrupted, There are always haters out there to get the Clintons.
The Democratic 2016 front-runner is said to have later regretted her tirade against the president not for the disrespect she showed, but for the weakness she displayed.Nick Merrill, Clinton s spokesman, called Klein s account bulls t. Another book?
Someone should do a book about Ed, said Merrill.
They could call it Bulls t: The Problem with Anything Ed Klein Writes.
The only true thing about him is his consistent and utter lack of a relationship with the facts, Merrill said.
He has more hair than credibility, and the man is bald.
So we re not going to get down in the gutter with him and his outrageous fabrications.
Via: NYPHillary s on a mission to be a softer, warmer, funnier candidate but according to a new book, the real Hillary Clinton is so volatile and prone to violent outbursts that she terrorizes staff, Secret Service agents and even her own husband.
Hillary Clinton has a long history of being domestically violent with Bill, Stone writes.
Hillary has beaten Bill, hit him with hard objects, scratched and clawed him, and made him bleed.