Sarah Palin continued to fan the flames of hatred and racism toward black people on Sunday by demanding that the media refer to them as thugs and avoid acknowledging that they are living breathing human beings.During an interview with Breitbart two days after five Dallas police officers were killed by a lone gunman who was totally unaffiliated with Black Lives Matter, Palin followed other conservatives by blaming black people for the killings and said she refuses to call the protesters people.
They re not protesters.
You know, these are thugs, they re rioters.
And yeah, I m calling out the media, saying quit claiming that these rioters are people.
They re stomping on a flag figuratively and literally shouting death to cops , celebrating violence.
Black Lives Matter is a non-violent peaceful movement protesting police brutality and the unjust killing of innocent black people by police officers who flagrantly use excessive force.Furthermore, the Black Lives Matter rally in Dallas was a peaceful march and leaders worked with police prior to and during the demonstration.
And when shots were fired protesters helped police identify where the shots were coming from.It should also be pointed out that burning an American flag is not illegal and is considered protected by free speech.But none of the facts matter to America s village idiot.She went on to call black people who speak out against police violence evil and attempted to co-opt Dr. Martin Luther King, who also led nonviolent demonstrations in the 1960s to fight for civil rights the same way Black Lives Matter does today.
I think the media is perpetuating a message that really evil people are thriving on right now as they try to warp malleable minds that would believe that one race matters more than another.
You know, it s the antithesis of Martin Luther King Jr. s message.
It s the antithesis of our Constitution, of the Bill of Rights, our charters of liberty that says all men are created equal.
Here s the video via YouTube.Conservatives across the country have been making every effort to portray black people as monsters and criminals in an effort to shut down the Black Lives Matter movement.
They are perfectly fine with black people getting shot like dogs in the streets by police officers and their rhetoric against the protesters has already nearly resulted in a massacre at a Portland, Oregon rally.
A right-wing gun nut could have killed dozens of people had he not lost his nerve after pulling his gun and aiming it at the protesters marching down the street.So rhetoric like Palin s is only making things worse.
As bad as the racism and hate from conservatives has been, it s about to get even uglier and could erupt in violence.Featured image via YouTube screenshot