Sometimes it takes a wolf to catch a snake.Rudy Giuliani has been making the media rounds over the last two days, bragging that he knew about FBI Director James Comey s letter two days before it went public.That means Giuliani has been getting inside information from the supposedly non-partisan Federal Bureau of Investigation that he has likely been passing on to Donald Trump, which means the FBI appears to be colluding with Trump s campaign to sabotage Hillary Clinton.And during an interview with Wolf Blitzer on CNN Friday night, Giuliani was cornered over it because the only way he could possibly get such information is if a current FBI agent is passing information to him personally, or through someone else.
No, I ve spoken to no current FBI agents, Giuliani claimed when asked by Blitzer.
Gosh, in the last eight months, nine months, ten months, certainly not about this.
Then Giuliani claimed that everything he has been hearing is just hearsay.
But that apparently has not stopped him from spewing the hearsay on Fox News and elsewhere in an effort to smear Hillary Clinton.
So, I ve had lots of conversations with them and they have told me a lot about the I guess the disagreement between the Justice Department on the one hand and the FBI on the other.
But it all comes from former FBI agents and it s all hearsay.
But that s hard to believe since Giuliani claimed that he knew about Comey s letter two days in advance and that letter was actually released.
It was not hearsay.Blitzer then hit Giuliani with a statement written by Democratic congressmen accusing him of obtaining leaked information from FBI agents.The statement reads: This morning Rudy Giuliani, one of Donald Trump s closest and most vocal campaign advisers, appeared on national television and confirmed that he had obtained leaked information about the FBI s review of Clinton-related e-mails several days before FBI Director James Comey sent his letter to Congress last Friday about this letter.
In fact, Mr. Giuliani went even further and bragged about the information that he had obtained stating, Did I hear about it?
You re darn right I heard about it.
Again, the only way Giuliani could have heard about this is if a current FBI agent leaked the information to him or passed it to him through someone else.
Either way, the FBI has a serious breach that is being used to help Donald Trump.
That s not correct, Giuliani responded.
I ve had no conversations with anyone inside the FBI.
I have heard for the last four months a tremendous amount of information about the consternation within the FBI, the fact that FBI agents were very unhappy about the way they were being treated by the Justice Department.
But none of it came from any current I haven t talked to a current FBI agent.
So Giuliani just admitted that he is getting this information from former agents who are getting the information from current agents.Blitzer actually got Giuliani to claim that he didn t know that Comey was going to release the information he did, and that it came as a surprise, but Giuliani did an about-face only seconds later and said it wasn t a surprise.
Seriously, Blitzer did a great job of getting Giuliani to tie himself in knots.The former NYC mayor then repeated his alleged hearsay once again by claiming that he has heard from his sources that FBI agents are angry at the Justice Department for not indicting Hillary Clinton, despite the fact that Director Comey recommended that charges were not warranted.Giuliani then claimed that he read articles about it somewhere, but didn t specify where the articles came from and said he s not sure if they are true.So Giuliani claims that he is talking to former FBI agents, and that what he has heard is merely hearsay that he spreads anyway as if it s the truth, and then he claims that he read this information in articles even though he doesn t know if what he is reading is the truth, and he still repeats it to anyone within earshot.And Wolf Blitzer drove a stake through the heart of Giuliani s bullshit by asking one question.
But let me ask you a question, Mayor.
If you don t know it s true, why are you suggesting it?
Why are you going on national television talking about these issues if you don t know it s true?
Giuliani once again touted his FBI sources, only to then be informed by Blitzer that FBI agents sign a form agreeing to never reveal information about investigations and that they have a responsibility to not leak information to people like Giuliani.Here s the video via YouTube.
[ad3media campaign= 1302 ]The FBI should be thoroughly investigated by the Justice Department to find out who is leaking information to a private citizen who also happens to be a surrogate for a presidential candidate who will do anything to smear his opponent in an effort to win the election.
This is a major breach within the FBI and it definitely looks like the FBI is working with Republicans to persecute Hillary Clinton.
People need to be fired for this and the first person to lose their job should be Director Comey.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video