Nancy Pelosi just embarrassed herself by saying the Republican tax cuts are The end of the world (see below) and now this:Nancy Pelosi decided to tell California Republicans they don t belong and was immediately trashed on twitter: I want every single California Republican to understand this.
Your ideology doesn t come first.
Your party doesn t come first.
The PEOPLE come first.
If you fail to recognize that, you don t belong here.
I want every single California Republican to understand this.
Your ideology doesn t come first.
Your party doesn t come first.
The PEOPLE come first.
If you fail to recognize that, you don t belong here.
https://t.co/xjbyOTI2MC Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) December 5, 2017Pelosi was immediately hit with responses:Shut up, clown.
We have a homeless crisis here, our kids are stepping in human feces and junkies needles, There s tent cities under freeway overpasses, public domains, and public streets from San Diego to San Francisco you don t give a damn about people https://t.co/uNwCHD7CRt RockPrincess (@Rockprincess818) December 5, 2017Hysterical video of the Chuck and Nancy show:The Chuck and Nancy show pic.twitter.com/mQums9x8y3 Mike (@Fuctupmind) December 5, 2017Sorry California, you have a very bitter representative.
Starting a tweet attacking an entire party in your state and then claiming people come first either means she is confused or doesn't see Republicans as people.California you can do better.
Paleo Libertarian (@bolderthanu) December 5, 2017Third generation Californian weighs in:Don t EVER tell me, as a 3rd generation Californian where I belong I ll go where ever I damn well please within the US & CA this is not your country (CA) Greg Orr (@Gregorr22) December 5, 2017PELOSI GOES OFF ABOUT TAX CUTS:Nancy Pelosi just got even more embarrassing than ever She pulled the drama card while commenting on the tax cuts: No this is the end of the world.
The debate on health care is life or death.
This is Armegeddon!
This is a really big deal.
Because you know why?
It s really hard to come back from this This has been the way Pelosi has behaved lately OUR RECENT REPORT ON PELOSI: Nancy Pelosi spoke for less than 8 minutes to the LBJ Foundation on Wednesday, but some attendees may have left the event wondering what is wrong with the House Minority Leader.
She was seen repeating words, having trouble speaking and botched Lyndon Baines Johnson twice.OUR PREVIOUS REPORTS ON PELOSI S ANTICS: Another brain freeze moment from Nancy Pelosi Why does she do this to herself?
She continues to be the poster child for term limits!Comedian James Corden challenged Pelosi to say something nice about several prominent Republicans but he asked last about Trump Say one nice thing about Paul Ryan, Corden said, holding up a picture of the Speaker of the House.After some awkward silence, Pelosi acknowledged that Ryan is a gentleman.
Corden followed up with Ted Cruz.
Memorized the Constitution, Pelosi said.
That s a good thing.
It s a good thing, it s not a nice thing about him, Corden persisted.
Ok, Ted Cruz, good father, Pelosi replied.
Ok, time for the big dog, Corden said, pulling out a picture of Trump.
Is there one nice thing you can say about Donald Trump?
Flag pin, Pelosi said, pointing to the pin on Trump s lapel.
I don t know that that counts, Corden said, That s not about Donald Trump, he probably didn t even put that on himself.
Is there one nice thing you can say about Donald Trump?
he repeated.Several seconds later, Pelosi replied: I hope so.
I hope I can.
But not today?
Corden said.
President, Pelosi said after another long pause.
He s president.
You can t think of one nice thing to say about him?
Corden prodded.
He s nice to me, Pelosi said.
Is he?
Is he respectful?
Corden said.
Yeah, respectful, Pelosi said.
Read more: American Mirror