Fox News host Megyn Kelly is all too familiar with Donald Trump s bullying tactics.
She d endured several of them during the presidential debates and Trump continued to attack her over Twitter throughout his campaign.
Now that Trump has been elected as the next President of the United States, Kelly is breaking her silence and coming forward about the threats she d kept to herself until now.In a USA Today interview published on Tuesday, Kelly spoke about her new memoir, Settle for More in which she talks about how Trump relentlessly harassed her and compromised her job by whining to the executives at Fox News after she dared to ask him about his treatment of women during a primary debate.
And when Kelly reported on an older allegation of spousal rape against him, Trump resorted to his teenage tactics and warned he would unleash his Twitter account on her.
Seriously.After Kelly reported on the rape allegation made by Trump s ex-wife Ivana, she said Trump personally called her and said: I almost unleashed my beautiful Twitter account on you, and I still may.
Spoken like a true psychopath.
The unfortunate thing is that Trump actually made good on his threat he spent several months attacking and mocking Kelly after that incident.
He was so brutal in his attacks that his supporters were even threatening Kelly.
Some even showed up at her house.
Kelly said: (Trump) couldn t let it go for so long and there was a time when I wondered if he d ever let it go.
The way Trump terrorized and harassed women during his presidential campaign is unprecendented.
We ve never seen such unprofessional, blatantly misogynistic behavior from a presidential candidate before.
Unfortunately, America s children are learning from it, and he s set an awful example.
You can watch Kelly discuss the devastating impact of Trump s bullying of women below:WATCH: @MegynKelly discusses her daughter being scared of Donald Trump.
https://t.co/bPNFXDCSr0 https://t.co/eo21Xss5dZ Good Morning America (@GMA) November 15, 2016Featured image via Mike Coppola and Drew Angerer / Getty Images