Ohio State Senate Majority Leader Tom Patton is a term-limited Senator who has decided to run for the State House of Representatives to keep his political career alive.
His opponent is a young woman named Jennifer Herold, who is the mother of 2 toddlers.
Patton, proving that he has more than enough misogyny to be a card-carrying member of the Republican party, has decided Herold is unqualified to run against him.You see, Jennifer Herold isn t a 62-year-old man like Patton is.
As a woman under 30 with two children, she has no business in politics.
Patton said in a radio interview recently: The gal that s running against me is a 30-year-old, you know, mom, mother of two infants.
And I don t know if anybody explained to her we ve got to spend three nights a week in Columbus.
So, how does that work out for you?
I waited until I was 48 and my kids were raised and at least adults before we took the opportunity to try.
Well then.
There are so many things wrong with that statement it s hard to choose where to begin.
First, don t call her gal.
It s insulting and cheapens your attack even more, if that s possible.
Newt, Columbus isn t all that far; Mrs. Herold could easily make the commute if she wanted to.
It s difficult to imagine a fragile little gal having the ability to oh, say drive a car, we know.
Last, have you considered, Senator, that she may have a husband at home who doesn t believe it s the woman s job to take care of the kids 24/7?How old you are and your warped sense of how a modern family works is irrelevant, you insufferable douchebag.It gets worse.
While talking polling numbers, Patton said: I want to tell her, Hey Sweetie, I just got 27 percent of the pie in just my district, which is nine times what should have been done.
Seriously?
Hey, Sweetie?
What is unfortunate is that his message will resonate with the sexists who populate his party.
They don t like people who don t have penises representing them, because what could a woman possibly know about anything other than child-rearing and pleasing her husband?
Patton is the perfect poster boy for the GOP.Herold responded with pure class and dignity in a statement: We realize the sacrifice that is involved in holding such a position.
However, Tom Patton has crossed a line by trying to turn the fact that I am a mother of two children into a negative campaign issue.
It s insulting for my opponent to suggest that motherhood is a liability.
In fact, my experience as a mom is perhaps my greatest strength.
Tom, only one man in my life is allowed to call me sweetie.
From now on, I respectfully ask you to refer to me as Jen, Jennifer, Ms. Herold, or your opponent.
Well said, Ms. Herold.
Patton has since apologized, calling his words poorly chosen.
What he doesn t seem to understand is that it isn t the words he chose that are disturbing, it s the way he thinks.
It s the sexism and utter disrespect for Herold as a woman and a human being that make him so despicable.Too little too late, Senator.
Hopefully you get your ass handed to you so you ll have no choice but to stumble off into the sunset and obscurity.
Featured image via screen capture