Carly Fiorina and Chris Christie dropped out of the campaign for the Republican nomination for president today.
The prospect of not making Saturday s GOP debate on CBS as a result of poor finishes in New Hampshire last night possibly triggered the pullout .
The 2016 Presidential race is quickly dwindling down but questions linger regarding the two who dropped out today: Did Chris Christie miss his opportunity to have success at a run for president in 2012?
He said at the time that he wasn t ready to run and then the Bridgegate scandal happened tarnishing his chances for a clean entrance into the 2016 campaign.
If he had remained in the race, there s no doubt the scandal would have been a topic for discussion.
One thing is for sure, Christie was able to damage Rubio in the last debate with his repeated claims that Rubio was spitting out canned sound bites he d memorized.
Ouch!
He also claimed that Rubio wasn t ready to be president.New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie formally suspended his presidential campaign today.The New Jersey governor held a meeting with his campaign staff at 4pm this afternoon to thank them and announce the news, a spokesperson to the campaign confirms to ABC News.The decision comes a day after the New Jersey governor came in a disappointing 6th place in New Hampshire, despite a heavy investment of time and funds into the first-in-the-nation primary contest.
We came to new Hampshire to bring the message, Christie told gathered supporters in Nashua, New Hampshire as election results rolled in last night.
The message was heard by a lot of folks.
And it was stood for by a lot of folks here in New Hampshire, just not enough.
Via: ABC Carly Fiorina Ends Her Bid For The Republican NominationWas Carly Fiorina s campaign for president harmed by ABC demoting her to the undercard debate stage?
It s certainly a question that s been asked since the night of the debate.
She really never recovered after that night.Carly Fiorina is exiting the Republican presidential race after a seventh-place showing in last night s New Hampshire primary.
While I suspend my candidacy today, I will continue to travel this country and fight for those Americans who refuse to settle for the way things are and a status quo that no longer works for them, said Fiorina in a statement.Fiorina was an unconventional candidate.
Her only previous political effort had been a 10-point loss in a race for U.S. Senate in California, and her tenure at Hewlett-Packard was most notable for her being fired by the board of directors after an unsuccessful merger with Compaq.Still, Fiorina struck a chord with many Republican voters, many of whom were especially drawn to her fierce anti-abortion viewpoints and spirited appearances on the campaign trail and in debates.
Via: NPR