Ever since Khizr and Ghazala Khan gave their powerful speech at Hillary Clinton s Democratic National Convention, Trump has been attacking them for calling him out on his anti-Muslim rhetoric.The Khans are the parents of a slain Muslim soldier who was killed while fighting for America but that didn t stop Trump from insulting and disrespecting them.
Trump not only criticized Mrs. Khan for not speaking during the speech (which was really because the grieving Gold Star mother was afraid she would burst into tears) and telling the Khans that he, too, had made so many sacrifices.TwitterSince these remarks, Trump has received backlash from both Democrats and Republicans who recognize how heartless and cowardly it is to attack the parents of a slain soldier.
Hillary Clinton herself denounced Trump s criticism of Ghazala, calling Trump s attacks insulting the family of a fallen soldier Captain Khan, an American Muslim who sacrificed his life to protect his unit and other soldiers as a taxi raced toward a base containing a bomb.
If you didn t think the response from Trump could get any worse, you re severely underestimating him and his team.
On Sunday night, Trump s running mate released a statement that first appeared to be a defense of the Khan family until the true nature of his statement was revealed.
Mike Pence, in a Facebook post, claimed that even though Trump s recent actions show that he does NOT care at all about the Kahns, Trump actually cares very much.
Pence, whose own son is a Marine, wrote, Captain Khan gave his life to defend our country in the global war on terror.
Then of course, Pence goes on to blame President Barack Obama and Clinton for ISIS and doubled down on Trump s proposal to ban Muslims from coming into the United States.
Pence wrote: By suspending immigration from countries that have been compromised by terrorism, rebuilding our military, defeating ISIS at its source and projecting strength on the global stage, we will reduce the likelihood that other American families will face the enduring heartbreak of the Khan family.
What a way to honor a Gold Star family!
You can check out Pence s Facebook post below:Featured image via John Moore / Getty Images