Sen. Richard Blumenthal laid all his cards on the table when it comes to Donald Trump s Supreme Court nominee, Neil Gorsuch.
The Democratic senator from Connecticut argued that with the looming constitutional crisis facing the country and the growing likelihood that Trump will be impeached, Gorsuch should be filibustered.Speaking from the Senate floor on Monday, Blumenthal said that after deliberating carefully and deeply, he has decided to vote against Gorsuch.
He said that although he still harbors resentment over the way Republicans treated former President Obama s SCOTUS nominee, Merrick Garland, that isn t why he will be voting no on Gorsuch.
But my vote is not about Merrick Garland.
It is about Neil Gorsuch and it is about the constitutional crisis that may well be looming as a potential threat to our democracy.
Blumenthal noted the testimony of FBI Director James Comey, reminding his fellow Senators that Trump is being investigated for possibly colluding with Russia to interfere with the 2016 election.
This, he explained, makes the Supreme Court more important than ever.
The independence of our judicial branch has never been more threatened or more important.
The possibility of a Supreme Court needing to enforce a subpoena against the president of the United States is far from idle speculation.
It has happened before in United States vs. Nixon.
President Trump has launched a campaign of vicious and relentless attacks on the credibility of our judiciary.
His disparaging comments have attempted to shake the foundations of respect for judicial rulings, the credibility and trust that is so essential to our Supreme Court and all our courts.
And it is a respect that is vital to holding the president himself accountable to the people and our Constitution.The senator added that Trump had promised a litmus test, for whatever nominee he chose and as an acolyte of hard-right special interests, Gorsuch definitely fits the bill.
Because of this, and Gorsuch s evasion of questions regarding civil rights, Blumenthal said he can be expected to attack abortion rights and same-sex marriage, among other things.
All reasons he needs to be kept as far away from the bench of the Supreme Court as possible.You can watch Blumenthal explain why he will be voting no on Gorsuch, here:Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images