Trump s inauguration is becoming one of the biggest jokes in presidential history, and it hasn t even happened yet.The president-elect has yet to convince any real talent to perform at his ceremony, with even B-List celebrities turning down invites.
The biggest name on Trump s list of possibilities was renowned Italian opera singer Andrea Bocelli, but according to The New York Post, because of backlash from fans on social media, he has also declined to perform.A source told the Post: Bocelli said there was no way he d take the gig .
.
.
he was getting too much heat and he said no.
With no real talent showing up, other than The Mormon Tabernacle Choir, the Rockettes and America s Got Talent singer Jackie Evancho, it s sad enough, but now it looks like former presidents are also resisting the event.
So far, and we re less than a month away from this debacle, it looks like Jimmy Carter is the only former president who has confirmed that he will be in attendance.Politico reports:Carter, who endorsed Clinton, announced at his Sunday school class in Georgia earlier this month that he would attend the inauguration.Following tradition, all former presidents are invited to attend the ceremony on Jan. 20 when Trump will be sworn in.
But not all living presidents have consistently attended the inaugurations of their successors.President Barack Obama in 2009 enjoyed the presence of all four living presidents both Bushes, Carter and Clinton at his first inauguration, but the Bushes skipped Obama s second event in 2013, citing George H.W.
Bush s compromised health.Since Trump s election, the Clinton family have been virtually out of the public eye and because of the nasty events leading up to the election, this is not surprising.
After the way Hillary has been treated by Trump and his supporters, it would make sense for former president Bill Clinton to decline to be in attendance, though some say this would be petty on their behalf and would make Hillary look bad if she didn t show up.
A spokesman for Bill Clinton declined to comment to Politico regarding whether they would be there or not.Neither of the two Bushes endorsed Donald Trump, most likely due to the brutal way Trump mocked fellow Republican candidate Jeb Bush, and while George Sr. has already announced that he would not be at the ceremony, Bush s spokesman, Freddy Ford said that George W. Bush was still weighing his options and would probably not make a decision until January.Trump s inaugural committee did not respond to Politico s request for comment, but it doesn t appear as if anyone wants to celebrate his so-called massive victory.
As Trump himself would say, things are looking pretty SAD!
Featured image via Getty/Zach Gibson