Ammon Bundy and his band of armed domestic terrorists attended a meeting of Harney County residents on Tuesday night, and discovered they are universally loathed.During the meeting held in the gymnasium at Burns High School, residents took turns telling Bundy and his pals to get the hell out of their home as they looked on in silence.The militants had made an unexpected appearance, which is why residents made the most of the opportunity to slam them to their faces.Since the beginning of the month, Bundy and friends have occupied the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge after seizing a federal building on park grounds and turning it into their own personal compound from which they have threatened law enforcement, used federal vehicles as their own, and torn apart federal property.Bundy claims his group is doing all of this to force the government to reverse the five-year prison sentence of Dwight and Steven Hammond, who were convicted of setting fire to federal lands.
Five years is the minimum mandatory sentence for committing arson, something a resident angrily pointed out while also noting that minimum mandatory sentencing affects everyone and were put in place by Republicans.
It has been around for 20 years and it was the Republicans who put them in place, resident Isabelle Fleuraud said.
For 20 years mostly inner-city, poor, minority men have been unjustly jailed for endless sentences The Hammonds committed the crime, and they got the sentence that was appropriate for that crime.
And it is very sad, but it is sad for everybody in America who has an unfair sentence.
Not just the Hammonds.
She went on to blast Bundy for invading the community and told him he belongs in a jail cell.On woman told Bundy to give them back their home so people will stop stressing out over the occupation.Indeed, the local area has been basically on lockdown since the standoff began.
Schools have been closed and area businesses have taken a hit.Ed Brown told Bundy that he agrees that the government is too big but even he wants the gunmen to leave.
But the same hand, get the hell out of my yard.
Look what you did to this county, he said.And when Oregon judge Grasty stood toe to tow with Bundy and told him to get the hell out of his county to his face, the residents cheered and chanted Go, go, go, go.
It is time for you to go home, Grasty declared.
I don t care if it s Utah.
Go home will you?
We got families.
We need to move on.
Here s the video via YouTube.Bundy and his armed band are unwelcome by the local community they claim to be fighting on behalf of.
That alone should be enough to convince them to leave with their tails tucked between their legs.
But so far, they have refused to budge.
And frankly, their treason is tiresome and would have been put to a swift end if they weren t white rednecks.
That being said, it s time for the Justice Department to arrest all of the members of this group and throw the book at them, something one Oregon lawmaker has already ripped them for failing to do during a speech on the House floor.Featured Image: Twitter