Anyone trying to defend Donald Trump after his disgusting anti-Semitic tweet is having a really hard time.First, former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski got shut down at his new gig on CNN for insisting that there was nothing wrong with Trump tweeting out an anti-Hillary Clinton meme that blatantly used the Star of David and originated from a website frequented by neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
It didn t go well for Lewandowski, and it didn t go well for Michael Caputo, who tried to come to Trump s rescue earlier today.In a Monday morning interview with CNN, the former Trump campaign advisor tried to make the case that Trump shouldn t be apologizing for the anti-Semitic post.
According to Caputo, there was nothing to be sorry about: This was not intended to offend anyone.
Caputo also denied that the star s shape was the Star of David, and insisted that it was merely a geometric image that some associate with the horrible days of Nazi Germany.
Reminding everyone that the Trump campaign did in fact fix the Star of David debacle by slapping a circle over it, Caputo continued: This was an unforced error, there s no question about it, otherwise they wouldn t have changed it.
But to apologize for it?
I don t think so.
TwitterThe interview got even more insane as Caputo insisted that almost no one found the image offensive (which is a lie) and accused the media of making a big deal of the red Star of David s appearance on the image to distract people from focusing on the FBI investigation on Hillary Clinton s emails.Unable to take this nonsense any longer, CNN s John Berman stepped in and pointed out that the meme had appeared on a site that was trafficked by neo-Nazis.
This caused Caputo to basically lose his mind and fire back, Do you know that?
Do you know that?
Berman replied, Yes!
, which inspired Caputo to basically lie again and say that Trump s social media team had no control in choosing what images were tweeted from Trump s Twitter account because they were deluged at all times [with] incoming images from people who make them who want the campaign to use them.
That s the dumbest excuse Caputo could have come up with, but there s probably some truth in it.
Basically, Caputo is saying that Trump s social media staff has been so overwhelmed with people sending them Nazi images, they felt obligated to post one.
Sounds about right.You can watch Caputo epically fail at defending Trump below: Featured image via Marc Piscotty / Getty Images