We all know Trump is vindictive.
If he wasn t, he wouldn t be threatening lawsuits against everyone under the sun, and promising to change libel laws so it s easier to sue media outlets that dare to report bad things about him (even if they re true).
At a private lunch, years ago, when Richard Branson was expecting to just talk with Trump about whatever over lunch, it turned out that all Trump could talk about was his bankrupt companies and the people who d refused to help him financially.In an interview on CNN, Branson flat-out said: It was just the two of us.
I was expecting an interesting lunch talking about various things in the world.And instead I got a lunch where all he talked about was his bankrupt companies.
Then Trump said that he d tried to get help from five different people, all of whom had told him, more or less, to go fuck himself.
Branson then said what Trump had planned for those people: And then he spent the rest of this lunch telling me how he was going to spend the rest of his life destroying those five people.
He s also hell bent on destroying any press outlets, like The New York Times, that won t make him look good.
And he s obsessed with destroying the women who have accused him of sexual assault, because they aren t helping him either.Maybe Trump had lunch with Branson because he was hoping Branson would help him out financially?
Branson is only the 288th wealthiest person in the world, but Trump is 335th, according to Forbes.
That s this year.
Several years ago, when this lunch took place, Trump may have been in considerably worse shape.
Certainly his companies were in terrible shape.Branson went on to say that Trump s vindictive nature is dangerous for America.
In fact, he couldn t believe that such a vengeful and petty man would even get this far in a presidential election.
He s hoping he can get through to people who think Trump is wonderful, and will be good for America and the world.Trump is not a good man.Photo of Richard Branson by Mike Coppola via Getty Images for Tribeca Film Festival.
Photo of Trump by Joe Raedle via Getty Images