Barack Hussein Obama has not exactly done a stellar job convincing America he s a Christian.
He spent his entire career as Christian in a church that preached hate against America and the white man.
His own preacher, the racist Reverend Wright admitted that Obama only became a Christian to help himself become better integrated with the people who he was trying to embed himself with as a Community Organizer.
Even the casual observer couldn t help but notice that while Obama s been in office, he s done everything but backflips to defend the Islamic faith, while bashing Christianity.
Bill O Reilly shared photos of Barack Obama in traditional Islamic dress on his program Wednesday night claiming they were from his half-brother Malik s wedding.The Fox News host said it was very difficult to verify the exact location of the photographs a similar set of which were first released back in 2004 by Malik and previously published on DailyMail.com but claimed they were taken in Maryland in the early 1990s.
According to his half-sister, Barack Obama attended his half-brother s wedding in the early 1990s.
Malik Obama was a Muslim, said O Reilly.
The Factor has obtained pictures allegedly from that wedding, which we believe was held in Maryland.
Malik was married in 1981 for the first time and President Obama was his best man at that ceremony.
He now has multiple wives.O Reilly used the photos in a monologue alleging the President s deep emotional ties to Islam have stopped him effectively combating ISIS while also saying he believes the photos prove that President Obama is not a devout Christian.
He did this while attacking President Obama hours after he revealed he would not be withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, saying: President Obama, as we all know, will not even use the words Islamic terrorism.
Again today when telling the nation that America will maintain eight-thousand troops in Afghanistan, the president did not accurately describe the situation there, putting forth that it was more about politics than Islamic terror.
O Reilly claims the President Obama s failure to identify the terrorist threat facing America has allowed ISIS to run amok in the Middle East, a mistake he claims the Commander-in-chief will not acknowledge.
There is no question the Obama administration s greatest failure is allowing the Islamic terror group ISIS to run wild, murdering thousands of innocent people all over the world, including many Muslims, said O Reilly.
Mr. Obama has never, never acknowledged that mistake, nor does he define the ISIS threat accurately.
That group is killing innocent people in order to impose a radical version of Islam on the world.
The jihad is solely based on theology, perverted as it may be.
Obama s refusal to use the phrase Islamic terrorism , preferring instead to say militants or simply terrorists has long been a sore spot for his Republican detractors, including Donald Trump.O Reilly also said of Obama after sharing the photos: I believe he s a Christian.
I m not one of these guys who says he s a Muslim.
But I don t think he s a devout Christian.
He went on to say during the program: I base my analysis on the fact that in my opinion and I could be wrong, but I m not President Obama s sympathetic treatment of Muslims put the country in danger because he has not elevated the risks that we have to the level it should be.
And he allowed ISIS to be created because of his foolish decision to withdraw troops in Iraq and to pretty much run wild for five years.
So another president, angry about the jihad, would not have done that.
O Reilly s guest, Obama: From Promise to Power author David Mendell, jumped in at that point to say: I think President Obama is very sympathetic to all cultures, all religions.
He grew up in a multiplicity The host cut him off though to ask: Is that good for a commander in chief to be very sympathetic to all cultures and all beliefs when thousands of people are being murdered?
O Reilly then closed out the segment by stating: He s the commander in chief of the United States, and his main charge is to protect us.
It s not main charge as to be touchy-feely to all different cultures.
Via: Daily Mail