We were all waiting for this.
Law & Order: SVU has announced that they will be doing an episode based on Donald Trump s child rape case and it will air before the election.The NBC show has often made episodes that are ripped from the headlines, and now they will take on Trump s alleged rape of 13-year-old girl.
The episode, titled Unstoppable, will feature a Trump-like character who will be played by Gary Cole ( Veep ).
Variety described this character as a wealthy and boorish man who makes a run for the White House.
The storyline of the episode was inspired by the lawsuit filed by a woman, known only as Jane Doe, who has accused Donald Trump of raping her at the home of known child abuser Jeffery Epstein in the mid-1990s when she was only 13.
A hearing on the case, which names both Trump and Epstein as defendants in the suit, is scheduled for December 16 in a New York court.According to Variety, the episode, which was penned by SVU veteran Julie Martin and showrunner Rick Eid, has been highly scrutinized internally at Wolf Entertainment, home of SVU, and by NBC brass.
Originally, the episode was set to be aired Oct. 12 and was then pushed back to Nov. 9, the day after election day.
But NBC has now confirmed that the show will now air on Oct. 26, before the Nov. 8 election.NBC has been dead smack in the middle of Trump s Pussygate controversy.
Audio tapes were released from a 2005 Access Hollywood segment that featured the billionaire bragging about his ability to sexually assault women thanks to his celebrity status.
The GOP nominee s poll numbers have plummeted since the release of the tape, in which he said being a star made it permissible for him to grab em [women] by the pussy.
Dozens of Republican leaders and members of congress have dropped him like a hot potato as well.Trump and NBC have quite a history.
His shows, The Apprentice and Celebrity Apprentice, ran on the network for more than a decade.
NBCUniversal also co-owned the Miss Universe beauty pageant franchise with Trump up until just last year.With evidence that Trump is a sexual predator continuing to pile up, it was only a matter of time before SVU picked up the story.
I guess Donald Trump really is the Law & Order candidate after all.Featured image via Ty Wright/Getty Images