Yesterday, the leftist media spent the day wringing their hands in anticipation of finally pinning a Russian collusion story on President Trump, after General Flynn admitted to lying to the FBI about meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, during the Trump transition period.
It now appears that Flynn s testimony is a big nothingburger.
In fact, if the media was being honest with the American people, they would be telling them that Flynn s admission doesn t hold a candle to the lies former President Barack Obama s regime was caught telling.
Barack Obama s regime lied about matters that actually were much more serious in nature.
Many of their lies were about covering up for the deaths of innocent Americans.
From Obama s crooked former AG, Eric Holder, who lied about the illegal gun running program Fast n Furious that was responsible for the death of US Border Agent BrianTerry, to the lies his former national security advisor, Susan Rice told, when she went on a media-blitz to knowingly lie, when she told Americans the death of 4 Americans in Benghazi, was caused by a video.
It s got to be pretty bad, when a staunch Obama media ally, the Washington Post, tells him he should fire his CIA Director, John Brennan for lying.
From the Washington Post:In March, at the Council on Foreign Relations, CIA Director John Brennan was asked by NBC s Andrea Mitchell whether the CIA had illegally accessed Senate Intelligence Committee staff computers to thwart an investigation by the committee into the agency s past interrogation techniques.
The accusation had been made earlier that day by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who said the CIA had violated the separation-of-powers principles embodied in the United States Constitution.
Brennan answered:As far as the allegations of, you know, CIA hacking into, you know, Senate computers, nothing could be further from the truth.
I mean, we wouldn t do that.
I mean, that s that s just beyond the you know, the scope of reason in terms of what we would do.
{ }And, you know, when the facts come out on this, I think a lot of people who are claiming that there has been this tremendous sort of spying and monitoring and hacking will be proved wrong.Watch Brennan lie to Andrea Mitchell here:Now we know that the truth was far different.
The Post s Greg Miller reports:CIA Director John O. Brennan has apologized to leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee after an agency investigation determined that its employees improperly searched computers used by committee staff to review classified files on interrogations of prisoners.
{ }A statement released by the CIA on Tuesday acknowledged that agency employees had searched areas of that computer network that were supposed to be accessible only to committee investigators.
Agency employees were attempting to discover how congressional aides had obtained a secret CIA internal report on the interrogation program.
Some employees acted in a manner inconsistent with the common understanding reached between the CIA and lawmakers in 2009, when the committee investigation was launched, according to the agency statement, which cited a review by the CIA s inspector general.
The CIA statement was first reported by McClatchy.That committee s investigation is said to be sharply critical of the CIA, finding that it exaggerated the effectiveness of harsh interrogation measures and repeatedly misled members of Congress and the executive branch.
The findings are expected to be released publicly within weeks.After briefing committee leaders, Brennan apologized to them for such actions by CIA officers as described in the [inspector general] report, the agency statement said.
Brennan also ordered the creation of an internal personnel board, led by former Sen. Evan Bayh (D-Ind.
), to review the agency employees conduct and determine potential disciplinary measures.
An apology and an internal review board might suffice if this were Brennan or intelligence leaders first offense, but the track record is far from spotless.
In 2011, Brennan claimed that dozens of U.S. drone strikes on overseas targets had not killed a single civilian.
This remarkable success rate was not only disputed at the time by news reports even supporters of the drone program called it absurd but as the Bureau of Investigative Journalism and the New York Times both reported later, President Obama received reports from the very beginning of his presidency about drone strikes killing numerous civilians.
As Obama s top counterterrorism adviser at the time, Brennan would have received these reports as well, so either Brennan knew that his claim was a lie, or he is secretly deaf.
Similarly, Brennan denied snooping on Senate computers six weeks after Feinstein first made the accusation to the CIA in private, which means either that he was lying, or he had ignored a serious charge against his agency for six weeks, then spouted off about it without any real knowledge hardly the behavior expected of an agency director.And last year, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper lied under oath to Congress when he told Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and the Senate Intelligence Committee that the National Security Agency did not collect any kind of data on millions of Americans, a claim later disproved by documents leaked by former NSA employee Edward Snowden.
Despite Clapper receiving criticism from both sides of the aisle, the damage to Clapper s and the White House s credibility on intelligence and civil liberties issues and, well, the fact that lying to Congress is a crime (though one that s difficult to prosecute), Obama has not disciplined Clapper in any way.