During the last presidential debate, many people were live-tweeting their responses to the candidate s answers.
One of those people happened to be the legendary Shonda Rhimes, creator of pretty much every amazing drama on ABC at the moment.During one point in the debate, Donald Trump was talking about late-term abortion.
However, he didn t seem to have all his facts right, and he somehow thinks that babies are ripped from the womb in the 9th month.Not being able to refrain from Trump s clear lack of knowledge of women, pregnancy, abortion or the birthing process, Rhimes tweeted out: FYI: ripping baby from womb in 9th month is called C-section.
#VaginaEducation FYI: "ripping baby from womb in 9th month" is called C-section.
#VaginaEducation shonda rhimes (@shondarhimes) October 20, 2016Which is exactly what it is.
If a women is nine months pregnant and wants the baby removed, they would do that via C-section, and the baby would be fully developed.
If the baby was removed for any other reason that late in the pregnancy it s likely for some tragic reason and Trump really has to keep his orange mouth shut because he has no idea what he s talking about.On the other hand, Hillary Clinton s response during the debate regarding late-term abortion was absolutely on point.
She said:Roe v. Wade very clearly sets out that there can be regulations on abortion so long as the life and health of the mother are taken into account.
And when I voted as a senator I did not think that that was the case.
The kinds of cases that fall at the end of pregnancy are often the most heartbreaking, painful decisions for families to make.
I have met with women who have, toward the end of their pregnancy, get the worst news one could get that their health is in jeopardy if they continue to carry to term or that something terrible has happened or just been discovered about the pregnancy.
I do not think the United States government should be stepping in and making those most personal of decisions.
So you can regulate if you are doing so with the life and health of the mother taken into account.
However, Trump doesn t seem to care about women or the life of the mother and is instead catering to his dimwitted base who has no knowledge of basic science, let alone what goes on when a woman is pregnant.
Nor does he himself even care to know.
He just knows how to sell a point to his audience.
He is, after all, a scam artist businessman.Good on Rhimes for giving Trump some Vagina Education it d be nice if he learned a little about them before just walking up and grabbing them.Featured Photo by Bryan Bedder/Getty Images for Vulture Festival Twitter