Over the next few days, America (and the world, for that matter) will be protesting the presidency of Donald Trump and his dangerous administration.The protests had already begun yesterday, the day before Trump officially would be sworn in.
Last night in New York City, several celebrities also joined the anti-Trump protests and one of them included actor Alec Baldwin, who gets under Trump s skin like no one else can.To make sure that he would piss Trump off to the fullest extent, Baldwin gave a speech and even made sure he did his Trump impersonation from SNL, which never fails to make Trump have a Twitter meltdown.
Channeling Trump, Baldwin mocked the former reality television star and reminded Americans that the next President of the United States has a worrisome relationship with Russia: I just want to say, I ve been standing out here in the freezing cold for a long time.
I have to go to the bathroom.
I have to pee.
But I m holding it in, I m holding it in, I m not gonna pee.
I m going to a function at the Russian consulate tonight, I m holding it in till I get there.
After Baldwin had his fun imitating Trump, he grew serious and made sure that Americans knew how strong they would have to be over the next four years in order to preserve America s true values.
Baldwin told protesters that Trump and his cabinet members are counting on Americans to lay down and stop resisting, making it critical for the entire country to unite and oppose any concerning measure the administration proposes.
Baldwin also said: For all of you out there who have children, they re never too young for you to teach them what a real American is These people are a disgrace.
They are a disgrace to everything you and I believe in.
You can watch Baldwin s speech below:This protest was joined by several other celebrities as well.
Al Sharpton, Michael Moore, Mark Ruffalo and Robert De Niro all took turns speaking against Trump.
We know that when Trump sees footage of this, he won t be able to contain his anger, even on the biggest day of his life.Featured image via screenshots