If there is one thing conservatives hate more than President Obama, it is the thought of their children receiving a well-rounded education especially one that involves comprehensive sex education.
In fact, an Iowa father was so enraged about the health class being taught that he caused an elementary school and others to go into lockdown.Decorah police say Bruce Deano Divers, Jr. has been arrested and charged with three counts for causing the lockdown when he threatened two teachers on Facebook and sent an email promising to retaliate against the school because of health classes.
The Decorah School District released a statement on Sunday night telling parents that schools would be in lockdown on Monday as a precautionary measure.According to KWWL News after they ran the original story, Divers reached out to them and sent them a copy of the email he sent the school.
It read: Decorah schools spiritually declared war against my house today.
When I retaliate Monday morning Apparently, this right-wing nutjob believes that a holy war has been waged because his child was given health information.
Ironically, he could have avoided the entire situation if he d done his job as a parent months ago, according to Superintendent Mike Haluska.
Interestingly enough, we have paper work available at the beginning of the school year for anyone who wishes to have their children exempted from any conversations that have to do with that type of subject matter.
So what exactly were the kids learning about that pissed him off so much?
It had to be about sex, right?WRONG.Superintendent Haluska said that the fourth-grade students were learning about puberty and human body growth.
He freaked out because his kid was taught about puberty.
Seriously.
That s how crazy science-hating conservatives are.
Let s forget for a minute that comprehensive sex education is vital to reducing the occurrence of sexually transmitted diseases and reducing the rate of teen pregnancy, learning about their bodies in a health class is absolutely vital to be able to function in society.We ve all seen the movie Carrie, do you remember when she got her period but had no idea what the hell it was because of her crazy religious mother kept her sheltered?That s what right-wing, anti-education parents what to subject their kids to.Featured image via screenshot