Republicans are starting to rally around their presumptive presidential nominee, Donald Trump, albeit grudingly.
Top Republicans such as Paul Ryan have begun to settle into a middle ground where they will endorse Trump, yet speak out against his more racist and xenophobic remarks.
That being said, there is still a large number of Republicans out there taking the #NeverTrump pledge.GOP Senator Mike Lee from Utah still has not endorsed Trump.
In fact, he is speaking out against him.
So much so that he recently launched an attack ad against the presumptive nominee.
He has also spoken out against Trump during media interviews.
In one recent interview with Newsmax, Lee laid out a small list of grievances against Trump.During the interview, Lee brought up the time that Trump accused Ted Cruz s father (Lee and Cruz are BFF s) conspiring to kill John F. Kennedy, exasperatingly telling Newsmax, He said that.
He actually said that.
The exchange came after the host kept insisting that Lee should endorse Trump: Well, we can get into that if you want.
I mean we can get into the fact that he accused my best friend s father of conspiring to kill JFK, Lee said.
We can go through the fact that he has made some statements that some have identified correctly as religiously intolerance.
We can get into the fact that he is so unpopular because my sate consists of members who were a religious minority church a people who were ordered exterminated by the governor of Missouri in 1839 and statements like that make them nervous.
Now look, these things are not something that I couldn t get over if I heard the right things out of him.
But if you want to go to why I have concerns, I can go on if you like.
I hope I can get over these concerns.
I hope Mr. Trump can help me identify them.
But don t sit here and tell me Steve that I have no reason to be concerned about Donald Trump.
Trump has made a lot of enemies in the Republican Party during his primary campaign run.
Trump will not only have to fight off presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in the general election, but also the left of lite-fascist members of the Republican Party.
Sit back and get some popcorn, Trump s going to have to fend off punches from both the left and the right from now until November.You can start by watching the interview with Lee below.
Featured image from Leigh Vogel/Getty Images