If anyone knows what it s like to be attacked by the likes of Donald Trump, it s Rosie O Donnell.
The bitter feud between the two goes back years, and it should have been made clear then how much of a cruel and creepy misogynist he truly is.
What we ve been seeing from Trump on this most current campaign trail shouldn t really surprise us.
Yet, here we are, every day, getting shocked and appalled by everything he says.
However, it s really no different than he s always been if we looked past his celebrity to actually watch and listen.In a poem she posted to her website, Rosie O Donnell wrote about Donald Trump.
The piece really encapsulates everything that is the real estate mogul and failed businessman.
It highlights his failures and his outright creepiness, and really goes to show that he s always been this way.The poem reads: trump was once perceived to be powerful in wealthy NY circles to Long Island Kids like ME he was always a joke failed everything his tacky large lame gold letters TRUMP like a commandhe went after me with a vengeance that only now comes to tipify himdangerous evil richie rich this charlatan this compassion free creephe is all smoke and mirrors THIS truth I told back then seemed revolutionarySIMPLE TRUTHS PEOPLE last night ASK RO https://t.co/q8Vgw5xdDd pic.twitter.com/oda1TvCRH6 Rosie (@Rosie) April 3, 2016The fact that people are still drawn to Trump says more about those people than it does about the Republican frontrunner for president.
If that s the type of person they want leading the nation a hateful, vindictive, bigoted, misogynistic narcissist his supporters have to look deep within themselves to discover why those qualities are so desirable.
Either they are that way themselves, or they re too dumb to know the difference and easily respond to applause lines that can fit on a bumper sticker.Kudos to Rosie for always standing up to him and for still telling it like it is.
Never stop being you, Rosie.
Never stop.Featured Photo by Rob Kim/Getty Images