This is the best explanation of why Obama and the Democrat party are fighting so hard to keep the US State Department s Refugee Resettlement program going strong.
Please share this with everyone who s been wondering why the Democrats are so eager to bring Muslim immigrants from countries who hate us, to America, while leaving Christian refugees from the same countries behind.
To hell with terrorism, the Democrats want to win even if it s at the expense of our national security Looks like my old stomping grounds in Montana are heating up.
People there are not taking Obama s plan to force refugees on them lying down.
There was a protest in Missoula, Montana recently over that very issue.
It is just one of many battles brewing out there in small town America.Small towns in the sparsely populated parts of America are the perfect place to relocate these refugees.
Especially, if your agenda includes politically terraforming the country.
The West is historically conservative in their politics.
Many are Republicans and Libertarians.
Even the Democrats hearken back to an earlier time when they were more conservative in nature.
Obama and the Democrats can t have that.
They need to have an entire country willing to submit to Marxist diktats.
They need areas seeded with those who will vote Democrat and ensure that they stay in power no matter what.And it s not just voting demographics that are pushing this move either.
I personally believe that there is a warped logic to all of this.
That if Islam can be made the predominant religion in America, people will be more easily controlled.
That s insane of course and won t work, but there you have it.
Instead, Shariah law will be implemented and you will see the same atrocities occurring in Europe happen here.
The big difference being, that at least for now, Americans are armed and will use those weapons to protect their neighbors, loved ones and country.Of the 237 Syrian refugees admitted to the U.S. since the attacks in Paris just one has been a Christian.
The rest have been Muslims.CNS News reports that according to data from the State Department Refugee Processing Center, since the November 13 attacks the U.S. has admitted 236 Sunni Muslim refugees from Syria and a single Christian a Greek Orthodox refugee.Bringing in the refugees also moves forward the Cloward and Piven strategy to overwhelm the system so it will collapse and cause chaos in the streets.
These people want to tear the system apart, so they can replace it with something truly heinous.
The Obama administration will never admit that this is the plan, but can you honestly look at what is going on today and tell me it isn t?
Our borders are wide open.
We are not vetting anyone to speak of and security here in the US is worse than before 9/11.Communities in states such as Idaho, Montana, North Dakota and Kansas are being infused with Muslim refugees even though they are not wanted by the residents or the local law enforcement.
The feds and their leaders are not giving them a choice.
Wyoming is the only state currently not participating in the program, but even the governor there wants to jump in it.
Living in large cities would be too costly for the refugees and more can be accomplished with seeding them across the plains.
In a small town, they can turn everything to their advantage in short order.
Since many of our larger cities are already flooded with immigrants from south of the border and from Muslim nations, in many respects they have at least partially fallen to the ploy already.
This is the fundamental transformation of America in play.
South Carolina, Idaho, Minnesota, North Dakota and Michigan are vigorously fighting against this program and Obama s change .The same entitlements, jobs, lodging and freebies will be given to these refugees in small town America.
But that will mean taking more and more away from locals in these same communities.
These immigrants bring crime and disease with them.
As crime rises, people will leave which will hasten the take over of these towns.
At least that is what Obama and his friends hope for.
I pray that people dig in and decide to stay and fight if they can.We haven t learned a damned thing from watching what is going on over in Europe.
How do you justify the rapefugees in Germany and Sweden, who treat rape as game for a large number of players at a given event?
How can you ignore the violence, the murders, the depravity that is the Ummah?
What s wrong with these people?
Do money and power mean so much to them that they don t care that they are selling America out to a hellish nightmare movement?
Imagine your wives, daughters, mothers, neighbors little children subjected to these beasts.
What would you do?For entire story: Trevor Loudon