Drawing Muhammad is not illegal under American law, but only under Islamic law.
Violence that arises over the cartoons is solely the responsibility of the Islamic jihadists who perpetrate it.
Because freedom of speech is under violent assault, the human rights advocacy group the American Freedom Defense Initiative (AFDI) has announced a new ad campaign to defend freedom of speech and stand up to violent intimidation kicking off in the nation s capital.I said in a statement: Because the media and the cultural and political elites continue to self-enforce the Sharia without the consent of the American people by refusing to show any depictions of Muhammad or showing what it was in Texas that had jihadists opening fire, we are running an ad featuring the winning cartoon by former Muslim Bosch Fawstin from our Muhammad Art Exhibit and Cartoon Contest in Garland, Texas.
Let the American people see what the cowardly press is censoring in accordance with the blasphemy laws under the sharia (Islamic law).The ad campaign has been submitted to the Washington, D.C. MTA to run on buses and train dioramas in the Foggy Bottom, Capitol South, Bethesda, L Enfant Plaza, and Shady Grove stations.
Drawing Muhammad is not illegal under American law, but only under Islamic law.
Violence that arises over the cartoons is solely the responsibility of the Islamic jihadists who perpetrate it.
Either America will stand now against attempts to suppress the freedom of speech by violence, or will submit and give the violent the signal that we can be silenced by threats and murder.
We cannot submit to the assassin s veto.
It was the jihadis, not I, who made the cartoons a flash point.
If we surrender on that point and stop drawing Muhammad, we ve established a precedent of surrendering to violent Sharia enforcement, and once established, we will be made to reinforce it again and again.
Islamist government is a unique threat to free speech and libertyFreedom of speech is the foundation of a free society.
Without it, a tyrant can wreak havoc unopposed, while his opponents are silenced.Putting up with being offended is essential in a pluralistic society in which people differ on basic truths.
If a group will not bear being offended without resorting to violence, that group will rule unopposed while everyone else lives in fear, while other groups curtail their activities to appease the violent group.
This results in the violent group being able to tyrannize the others.I added: There is nothing about this cartoon that incites violence.
It is within the established American tradition of satire.
If America surrenders on this point, the freedom of speech is a relic of history.
AFDI Vice President Robert Spencer stated: Many people on both the Left and the Right are saying that we should do nothing to provoke Islamic fundamentalism.
The immediate answer would seem to be that we should do nothing to provoke violent jihadis, that the prudent thing to do would be to avoid doing things that anger them.
But if we did that, they would not they stop coming at us.
Last September, an Islamic State spokesman boasted: We will conquer your Rome, break your crosses, and enslave your women, by the permission of Allah, the Exalted.
This is His promise to us; He is glorified and He does not fail in His promise.
If we do not reach that time, then our children and grandchildren will reach it, and they will sell your sons as slaves at the slave market.
In light of that, what is the point of asking whether or not we should provoke them?
They re already provoked, he continued.
A more useful question now is whether it is really productive and helpful to signal to them that we will acquiesce to their threats of violence and change our behavior accordingly, or whether we will instead signal to them that their violent threats are not going to frighten us into submission.
The ads have been submitted to run on buses in Washington, D.C.AFDI stands for:The freedom of speech as opposed to Islamic prohibitions of blasphemy and slander, which are used effectively to quash honest discussion of jihad and Islamic supremacism; The freedom of conscience as opposed to the Islamic death penalty for apostasy; The equality of rights of all people before the law as opposed to Sharia s institutionalized discrimination against women and non-Muslims.
Via: Breitbart News