Another day, another billionaire and/or Republican refuses to endorse the train wreck that is Donald J. Trump.
While a slew of influential Republicans elected or not have rescinded or flat out refused to endorse the GOP presidential nominee, others have stubbornly remained by his side even after being stabbed in the back.But as Trump continues to say any outrageous, offensive and grotesque thing that comes to mind, one influential mega donor in the party is saying enough and is endorsing Trump s rival, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton instead.
And her endorsement of Clinton isn t a I guess I m with her mentality, either it s a full blown Ready for Hillary sentiment.Meg Whitman, a self made billionaire who didn t have any help from her daddy, posted a stinging denouncement of Trump on her Facebook.
Earlier this year, during the primary, Whitman expressed concern that Trump s rhetoric would hurt the party and turn off the electorate.
It turns out she was right, as Hillary Clinton has taken the lead (for now) by margins of 7 points to 15 points nationally.Whitman referred to Trump as uninformed, unsteady, authoritarian, and a demogauge.
She also praised Clinton for being an experienced, level-headed leader:As a proud Republican, casting my vote for President has usually been a simple matter.
This year is different.
To vote Republican out of party loyalty alone would be to endorse a candidacy that I believe has exploited anger, grievance, xenophobia and racial division.
Donald Trump s demagoguery has undermined the fabric of our national character.Trump s reckless and uninformed positions on critical issues from immigration to our economy to foreign policy have made it abun dantly clear that he lacks both the policy depth and sound judgment required as President.
Trump s unsteady hand would endanger our prosperity and national security.
His authoritarian character could threaten much more.Therefore, I have decided to support Hillary Rodham Clinton.
It is clear to me that Secretary Clinton s temperament, global experience and commitment to America s bedrock national values make her the far better choice in 2016 for President of the United States.
In a tumultuous world, America needs the kind of stable and aspirational leadership Secretary Clinton can provide.
I urge all Republicans to reject Donald Trump this November.Whitman, who is seen as a more moderate Republican given her positions of abortion, gay marriage and immigration, did the unthinkable: she put country over party.
And for that Republicans are already denouncing her like they did Romney, Kasich, Christie Todd Whitman, and so forth.This also shouldn t come as a huge surprise.
Whitman has donated to and aligned herself with California senator Barbara Boxer, considered one of the most liberal members of the Senate.Good for Meg Whitman in denouncing Trump and doing what is right.
Hopefully more Republicans will take action.Featured image via Andrew Burton/Getty Images