Figuring out the best way to deal with healthcare and health insurance is very delicate, complicated.
We ve got hundreds of thousands of Americans to take care of.Or do we?
We re all going to die anyway.
At least, according to Fox News.Fox News has presented the best argument to the health insurance problem on Wednesday by revealing that we will all one day die so it doesn t matter.
We can all pack up and go home everything is solved.
You know what the crazy thing is?
Lisa Kennedy Montgomery said to her fellow hosts, chuckling after each soundbite from the Democrats.
We re all gonna die.
And they can t predict there, there s no way, unless they re absolutely psychic and have a party line to heaven, they don t know who is going to die, or when, or how many people!
This revelation and chuckling came after airing statements from Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, in which they warn that cutting health care access for at least 22 million people by 2026 a figure the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released this week could result in thousands of deaths across the nation.I guess when you get down to it, the genius of this argument is pretty funny.
It s so simple!Newsweek points out that multiple studies over the course of decades have consistently reflected a decrease in deaths from treatable diseases when there is increased access to coverage.
A New England Journal of Medicine report states the largest decreases [in death rates] were for deaths from health care amenable conditions such as heart disease, infections and cancer, which are more plausibly affected by access to medical care.
Beginning with the Institute of Medicine s 2002 report Care Without Coverage, some analyses have suggested that lack of insurance causes tens of thousands of deaths each year in the United States, the journal wrote in its report, Health Insurance Coverage and Health What the Recent Evidence Tells Us.
Several quasi experimental studies using population-level data and longer follow-up offer more precise estimates of coverage s effect on mortality, it continues.
One study compared three states implementing large Medicaid expansions in the early 2000s to neighboring states that didn t expand Medicaid, finding a significant 6 percent decrease in mortality over five years of follow-up.
Source: NewsweekIn other words, the personalities on Fox News are completely lost.
Do people genuinely watch Fox News?
Do they really soak all this in?
There s enough evidence to show that cutting medical coverage will seriously hurt thousands of people, yet Fox News is happy to laugh it off.Featured image via Robin Marchant/Getty Images