Yesterday, actor Ben Affleck came out with a statement of shock over allegations that mega-Democrat donor and kingpin Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein raped and sexually assaulted multiple women in the industry.
A disgusting audio tape was released yesterday by the New Yorker that was secretly done by then 19-yr. old Italian model Ambra Battilana Gutierrez that showed how Weinstein used his position of power to make women perform sexual favors or take part in his sexual fantasies, or pay the (obvious and unspoken) consequences.Affleck, who is close to Harvey Weinstein and has spent a considerable amount of time around him, made the following statement on social media yesterday:tabloids He was quickly shot down by actress Rose McGowan who claimed he knew all about Harvey Weinstein s antics, despite his statement of fake outrage and disgust.
YOU LIE she tweeted in response to Affleck s comments.You want to play let's play #ROSEARMY pic.twitter.com/uqd26Z78gc rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) October 10, 2017Rose then went on to call all of the Hollywood A-list Golden Boys, LIARS and warned them, We have just begun.
But that wasn t the end of it for Affleck who seemed to be feigning shock over Weinstein s actions when according to at least a few young Hollywood actresses, he s got some explaining to do about his own actions.Hilarie Burton claims she was groped by Ben Affleck during his appearance on TRL in 2003.Daily Mail The former host of the show made the allegations on Tuesday night, just hours after Affleck made a statement condemning Harvey Weinstein s alleged abusive actions in his sexual assault and harassment scandal.In it, he said he was saddened and angry over the sickening claims.Affleck s statement was quickly slammed by a number of people including Weinstein accuser Rose McGowan who called Affleck a liar.When a fan tweeted that Affleck might as well have kept quiet, another Twitter user wrote: He also grabbed Hilarie Burton s breasts on TRL once.
Everyone forgot though.
The One Tree Hill Star then surprised the Twitter thread by interjecting with: I didn t forget.
The incident reportedly happened when he appeared on the show in 2003.
Burton was 21.A video clip from the show shows Affleck telling Burton a story mid-interview which appears to be about moves men use to pick up women.He leans his arm around the young host who is wearing a yellow bandeau dress.
No groping is seen on camera but Burton noticeably jumps and looks shocked on the footage as Affleck smiles and returns to his seat.Here is how the exchange went down after a Twitter user suggested Affleck would have been better off keeping his mouth shut over the Weinstein allegations.Ben Affleck should ve just kept quiet.
Clearly he wasn t thinking about his daughters when he left them to gallivant with their nanny.
I am I, Naima (@naimaism) October 10, 2017Shanice Brim, a female producer of the TLR show replied with a stunning admission that, He also grabbed Hilarie Burton s breasts on TRL once.
Everyone forgot though.
He also grabbed Hilarie Burton's breasts on TRL once.
Everyone forgot though.
Shanice Brim (@ShaniceBrim) October 10, 2017Actress Hilarie Burton quickly replied, I didn t forget.
I didn't forget.
Hilarie Burton (@HilarieBurton) October 10, 2017Shanice Brim told Burton how sorry she was that Affleck sexually assaulted her, saying, It s infuriating that people never bring up all the gross, predatory things he s done.
I m so sorry that happened to you.
It s infuriating that people never bring up all the gross, predatory things he s done.
Shanice Brim (@ShaniceBrim) October 11, 2017Seriously, thank you for that.
I was a kid.
Hilarie Burton (@HilarieBurton) October 11, 2017She then tweeted a clip from an interview she did taking fans behind the scenes at TRL.
In it, she relives and laughs off the incident.
He wraps his arm around me and comes over and tweaks my left boob, she says.
I m just like, what are you doing Some girls like a good tweakage here and there I like a high five.
Further footage shows Affleck asking the host, how old are you 19?
.
He would have been around 31 at the time of the recording.Watch:https://t.co/wh2MpJVQzlGirls.
I'm so impressed with you brave ones.
I had to laugh back then so I wouldn't cry.
Sending love.
Hilarie Burton (@HilarieBurton) October 11, 2017Here is the same video in a different format.