The recent CIA assessment concluding that Russia interfered with the election to help Donald Trump win caused the ladies of The View to sound the alarm.Seventeen intelligence agencies agree that Russia aided Trump in his effort to become president, and they are now poised to be greatly rewarded by their new puppet.
Joy Behar pointed out that Russia hacked the RNC as well as the DNC but withheld RNC emails while leaking emails from the DNC.Sunny Hostin explained that what concerns her most is that Trump is defending Russia, despite 17 intelligence agencies agreeing that Russia hacked our election.
Behar then played a clip of Trump asking Russia to hack the DNC and promised them that they would be rewarded mightily if they continued interfering.The hosts briefly slammed Kellyanne Conway for calling this story fake news, before Whoopi Goldberg chimed in that Kellyanne Conway is fake news.
The crowd appreciated that quip.
Goldberg went on to point out that if this were happening in another country that we would be all over it crying foul.
And she s right.
The United States has a long record of criticizing foreign interference in elections in other countries but Trump and his supporters are happy to accept Russia s assistance.Behar then called for Trump to step down because we are at risk when the President of the United States is fighting with the CIA.
Hostin concluded that Trump is getting in bed with Russia because he is seeking personal wealth.Here s the video via YouTube:Then the ladies shifted to criticize Trump s pick for Secretary of State.As we all know, Trump has surrounded himself with pro-Russia advisers throughout the campaign.
And now he is stocking his cabinet with them, too.
For instance, Rex Tillerson is an Exxon CEO who has close ties to Russia and is a personal friend of Vladimir Putin, yet he is Trump s pick to be America s top diplomat.
Tillerson also opposes the sanctions that were placed on Russia after they invaded Ukraine and seized the Crimea.
In short, Tillerson will likely choose financial gain for himself and the oil industry over the safety and protection of the American people and the interests of our country.And that enraged Behar.
Paul Manafort, who used to be his campaign director, he had to quit because of his ties to Russia, Behar said.
I mean, do we have to wait until the hammer and sickle is on the American flag before we stand up to this guy?
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is a direct threat to the security of our nation.
Russia sees him as a puppet, something they have waited a long time to have in the White House.
And the fact that Trump is pretending that Russia did nothing to help him win makes that very clear.Featured image via screenshot