Are the most criminal, brazen and crooked group of people to ever act as public servants in our government watching their house of cards fall?
I told you about the Obama Justice Department s incompetence and corruption when, over four months ago, I called for Attorney General Loretta Lynch s resignation.Remember when Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the husband of the former Secretary of State met on a plane on the tarmac:I told you about General Lynch s decision to hold a secret meeting on her airplane with former President Bill Clinton just days before the FBI interviewed his wife, the former Secretary of State, as part of a criminal investigation; and just days before General Lynch announced the former Secretary of State would not be indicted.
Here s what I said in June:Misconduct.
Dishonesty.
Impropriety.
No matter what word you choose, Attorney General Lynch s secret meeting with former President Bill Clinton was flat-out wrong.
She s clearly disqualified from participating in the investigations into former Secretary of State Clinton s private email server.And she must resign.I m leading our senior litigation team preparing to file legal demands and ethics complaints.
If the DOJ doesn t respond and she doesn t resign, we ll be back in federal court.
As promised, we took action.
We sent Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests to the Obama Justice Department and the FBI, demanding answers on how such a careless and perhaps intentionally underhanded meeting was allowed to happen.The FBI acknowledged our FOIA requests, and even granted our request for expedited processing by determining that we had shown our requests concerned [a] matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions about the government s integrity which affect public confidence.
The Justice Department remained silent.Then, last week s earth-shattering news hit that the FBI a component of the Justice Department was reopening the underlying criminal investigation.And early this week, the FBI advised the ACLJ Government Accountability Project that [n]o records responsive to your request were located.
Hard to believe.
What may be even harder to believe, though, is the fact that the Department of Justice completely ignored our lawful requests for records.
Or maybe that s just par for the course.So today, we re forcing their hand.
We re taking the Obama Administration to federal court.
Again.
We re filing a lawsuit against the Department of Justice, to ensure true justice.
If the corruption and flippant disregard for the law won t stop, neither will our Government Accountability Project, and neither will our lawsuits.As we explained in our Complaint, we re demanding records like this:Any and all records containing the names of any DOJ official, staff or employee who participated in any discussion regarding the meeting between General Lynch and Bill Clinton that occurred on Monday, June 27, 2016, at Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.Any and all records, communications or briefings prepared, sent, received or reviewed by General Lynch or any other DOJ official, staff or employee, at any time, containing any discussion of or in any way regarding the meeting between General Lynch and Bill Clinton that occurred on Monday, June 27, 2016, at Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix, Arizona.Any and all records of any communication or briefing received by General Lynch, any DOJ official, staff or employee from Bill Clinton or his staff regarding the meeting between General Lynch and Bill Clinton that occurred on Monday, June 27, 2016, at Sky Harbor International Airport in Phoenix, Arizona, regardless of whether the communication or briefing was received before, during, or after the meeting.For entire story: ACLJ