Fox Host Bret Baier found himself forced to retract a statement earlier today that claimed an indictment against Hillary Clinton was very likely because, well, he d pretty much lied and promptly got caught.
But the FBI has been a sieve for information about Hillary lately, which is where Baier supposedly got some of his information, and it s time to ask why.One FBI agent, who spoke to The Guardian on the condition of anonymity, might have part of the answer.
In fact, he just destroyed the bureau s reputation with his truth bomb about what s actually happening.
According to this agent, the FBI is basically Trumplandia, in that the agency isn t anything like objective about its investigations into Hillary: The currently serving FBI agent said Clinton is the antichrist personified to a large swath of FBI personnel, and that the reason why they re leaking is they re pro-Trump.'
Apparently, their attitudes only got worse when Director James Comey decided not to recommend indicting Hillary earlier this year.
A lot of Trumpkins all over the country were angry about that, most likely because she s a woman, and a clear and present threat to their chosen candidate.
The witch hunts have very little to do with actual evidence that she s a criminal.But it s not just Trumpkins that can t stand her whether they re Trumpkins or not, many in the FBI just have a very unfavorable view of Hillary.
That, too, raises serious questions about the agency s integrity right now: There are lots of people who don t think Trump is qualified, but also believe Clinton is corrupt.
What you hear a lot is that it s a bad choice, between an incompetent and a corrupt politician.
The bureau has come under fire for its handling of these investigations, along with Comey s decision to send a letter to Congress about newly discovered emails just 11 days before the election.
That alone was enough to give the impression that they re not objective, especially since Comey has refused to respond to that criticism.The Daily Beast also picked up on a story alleging that there are connections between Rudy Giuliani, who s got his head buried deep inside Trump s ass, and the New York City FBI office.
That office pressed headquarters to continue looking into the matter of Hillary s emails after Comey declared the investigation effectively closed.
Agents are pissed at Comey because they believe the failure to recommend indictment shook people s faith in the bureau.So the leaks from the bureau continue, and it s pretty clear now that the FBI is, in fact, on a witch hunt against Hillary rather than conducting legitimate investigations into legitimate problems.
If anything is calling the FBI s integrity into question, it s this, rather than Comey s decision not to indict back in July.Image of Hillary Clinton by by Justin Sullivan, image of James Comey by Alex Wong, via Getty Images.