By his own admission, Donald Trump is a serial groper who cheats on his wife.But that doesn t matter to conservative Christian leaders, who seem to be the only ones who still support the Republican nominee.When Trump s grotesque remarks about grabbing women by the p*ssy dropped like a bombshell on Friday, Republicans rushed to distance themselves from him.
Conservative Christian leaders, however, demonstrated that they are true hypocrites by continuing to back Trump.Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council said that his personal support for Donald Trump has never been based upon shared values.
Ralph Reed of the Faith and Freedom Coalition said that Trump s words rank very low is his concerns.
Pat Robertson thinks Trump is macho for groping women.And now Dave Daubenmire is going even further than those other hypocrites.The Ohio pastor still supports Trump because he would rather put a groper in the White House instead of a woman.
Women and men may be equal, but I think it s pretty clear that the Bible teaches us that women should not be in authority over a man, Daubenmire said.
Here s the point I m making.
With all that s going on with Trump and everybody screaming and hollering about that, when is the last time your pastor stood up in the pulpit and said, Hey, listen, we cannot vote for Hillary Clinton because women are not to have authority over men ?
If we want to follow the Bible, that would sure be a good place to start, wouldn t it?
Rather than worrying so much about the immorality of a sinful man, what about the biblical principle that when a woman rules over a man it s a sign of judgment of the Lord?
Here s the video via YouTube.So let s get this straight.
It doesn t matter how many sins Donald Trump commits.
It wouldn t even matter if he is the anti-Christ or the devil himself.
Conservative Christian men like Daubenmire are going to STILL vote for him just because they don t want a woman to be president.That s the real reason why conservatives are still devoted to Trump.
It s 2016 and these so-called men of God still believe women only belong in a kitchen completely subservient to them.
This is the agenda they are hoping to pass under a Trump administration.
A total rollback of women s rights to the point where women can t vote and cannot even speak without permission from a man.
And this is exactly why women should vote against Republicans by a landslide in November.Featured Image: Screenshot