Mississippi Republican Karl Oliver just gave the most honest, and most accurately Republican response that may have ever been given in the history of the modern Republican party, to a resident of his state.Becky Guidry sent Rep. Oliver an email over her concerns about Mississippi s planned tax breaks that their Republican-controlled legislature is considering.
The legislature plans to underfund the state s revenue to catastrophic levels by removing income and corporate franchise taxes.
It s not a silly concern since Kansas Republicans have had what can only be considered a post-apocalyptic budget and economy ever since they pulled these same shenanigans there.Guidry s letter is as follows: It is irresponsible of our leadership to suggest eliminating income and corporate franchise taxeswhen: revenue projections are already down, budgets for various services are being cut across the board, funding for public education and other critical services such as child care, foster care and roads/bridges are underfunded.
If and when this bill reaches the full House for a vote, again, I urge you to vote No.
Source: Clarion LedgerGuidry has a well thought out and practical opinion.
Republicans, however, do not care.Rep.
Oliver s spiteful and ignorant response is below:Mrs. Guidry,I normally don t return emails that do not request a response, but I found yours so intriguing I simply felt led to respond.I see you are not a native to the Great State of Mississippi nor do you and I have similar political views.
The people of our Great State overwhelmingly share my same or similar views on Government responsibility.
I appreciate you going to the trouble to share yours with me, but quite frankly, and with all due respect, I could care less.
I would, however, recommend that there are a rather large number of like minded citizens in Illinois that would love to see you return.With warmest personal regards,Karl OliverSource: Clarion Ledger I could care less.
He probably meant he could not care less, but as the colloquial expression is often said this way, his intent was obvious.
As sickening as a response like this is, it is really the most correct one that could possibly be given by a Republican.
He s right.
They really could care less what s good for the people in a town, state, or the entire nation.
Taking all the poor people s money and giving it to the rich is exactly what Jesus would do, right?Guidry was absolutely shocked and appalled by the response: My interpretation was since I was not born here that my opinion just doesn t count.
My husband s family is here I work and pay taxes, my son goes to public schools in the Gulfport School District.
We re involved in our community.
Source: Clarion LedgerThis is the new level of contempt that Republicans have for America.
A Trump trickle-down seems to be beginning, where authoritarianism and unaccountability are the new freedom.
Featured image via WJTV