Donald Trump is terrible, and we are reminded of this daily but after a week of disastrous foreign policy flubs and embarrassing gaffes related to Fredrick Douglass and terrorist attacks that didn t happen, Alec Baldwin was, as usual, there to blast The Donald for his idiocy.
Trump is, quite simply, a man who was never embraced by his hometown, by NY society.
Not even middle-of-road Repubs.
Always peripheral, Baldwin said as he began his assault.
Now he aims, out of spite, to destroy everything they hold dear.
For Trump and Bannon, the question is always, What will drive liberal NY crazy?'
1-Trump is, quite simply, a man who was never embraced by his hometown, by NY society.
Not even middle-of-road Repubs.
Always peripheral.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) February 4, 20172- now he aims, out of spite, 2 destroy everything they hold dear.
For Trump and Bannon, the ?
is always,"What will drive liberal NY crazy?"
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) February 4, 2017The actions of President Bannon and tangerine puppet Donald Trump have been unstable at best, including diverting federal funds to pay for their stupid wall, threatening to send troops to Mexico, messing up relations with Australia (the easy mode of diplomacy), and threatening war with Iran via Twitter.Baldwin says that there is a positive to the horrifying the actions of the Trump administration: they present an opportunity to prove, once again, the greatness of our country: that this racist maniac (Bannon) + his dim-witted 2nd cannot bring us down.
Maybe this will prove, once again, the greatness of our country: that this racist maniac (Bannon) + his dim-witted 2nd cannot bring us down ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) February 4, 2017But, he points out, there is a downside soon the world may tire of our quickly-growing array of racist and otherwise bigoted policies and stop accepting travelers from the United States something that could be uncomfortable for men like Eric Trump, who just wasted $100k of your money traveling to Uruguay for business.I wonder if a world-wide tourism ban against the US is next.
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) February 4, 2017The idea of a travel ban is not out of the question.
Iran recently responded to Trump s Muslim ban, which includes Iran, by prohibiting U.S. wrestlers from coming to their country for the freestyle World Cup.
Training comes to a halt.
We re like OK, what do we do now?
Where do we go?
Where do we compete?'
wrestler Jordan Burroughs said on Friday.
I m just bummed.
I love Iran.
I love their people, and I don t get into politics.
I wasn t going to make a political stance.
I was going to compete.
These decisions, these executive decisions, are always so far beyond your reach, Burroughs says.
Like, you always feel like Well, the presidency or these strict laws or these Muslim bans or whatever you like to call them, they ll never affect me.
This is one of the few times where something so personal has occurred.
Almost like it (was) handed down from the president to us.
It s a bummer.
Donald Trump is bad for America, and his policies are hurting everyone, but at least we can count on Alec Baldwin to occasionally give us a little levity (and, of course, send Trump into some of his more epic tantrums).Baldwin hosts Saturday Night Live on February 11.
Mark that date on your calendars because it s going to be epic.Featured image via screengrab