Security concerns were brought up after a black flag with a heart and Arabic writing was spotted on Citizens Tower under construction in Lubbock, Texas.
And yes, while it should be of concern that individual(s) trespassed onto private property that was behind a fence, scaled a building, and hung the flag, the broader issue that panicked local officials needs to be brought up.
They seemed to lose their damn minds.Here s a picture of the flag on the building:lubbockonline.comAnd if you zoom in:lubbockonline.comNow, with all that is going on in the world surrounding the horrific acts that ISIS is perpetrating, and seeing as their flag is also black with Arabic writing, you can see where maybe these people had a point in being upset.
However, not really, because what it really does is prove their utter ignorance, because once the flag is translated it literally reads, love is for all.
Pretty threatening, right?
However, it is Texas, so saying love for all in Arabic mixes their hatred and fear of Muslims with their hatred and fear of gay people, so really it was the perfect storm of panic for the Texas city.According to Lubbockonline.com: The flag, noticed on the building early Monday, prompted [Mayor Glen] Robertson to write a letter to City Manager James Loomis, requesting Lubbock police notify the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI and the Lubbock County Sheriff s Office.
Oh, for goodness sake.
Maybe their first move would ve been to figure out what it said and then go from there, but being the reactive instead of proactive society we are, local officials seemed to slip into full panic-mode straight away.
However, Mayor Robertson did have the wherewithal to say: I am also requesting that we take whatever steps are necessary to secure the building and ensure that this does not happen again.
I fully understand that we must gather more facts before we make a knee-jerk reaction but I am concerned on several levels.
Please keep me informed as we learn more about this situation.
Now, seeing that it was just Valentine s Day, and this flag was spotted early on the day after Valentine s Day, and the flag reads, love is for all, maybe, just maybe, it was someone spreading a Valentine s Day message of love.
However, that could just be a wild guess.
Albeit, this was probably not the best way to do it.Don t fret, though.
The flag has been removed, along with the love behind it:lubbockonline.comIn all seriousness, whoever hung the flag broke the law and should be charged with criminal trespassing.
However, the knee-jerk reaction to want to call Homeland Security because something was written in Arabic, but was really just someone wanting to spread a message of love, still seems a little over the top.
Use your heads, people.Featured image from Lubbockonline.com