Trump s supporters, and some in the press, believe that if it wasn t for Trump being a disgusting sexual predator, Hillary Clinton would have been done when Wikileaks released a bunch of emails from her campaign.
However, an aide to Hillary, John Podesta, has made an interesting connection, too.
One of Trump s close allies, Roger Stone, communicates with Wikileaks.And Stone has just admitted to it.
I do have a back-channel communication with Assange, because we have a good mutual friend, Stone told CBS4 News [Miami] Wednesday evening.
That friend travels back and forth from the United States to London and we talk.
I had dinner with him last Monday.'
He claims he doesn t have direct communication with Assange, though, and he insists he has nothing to do with their email dump.
Democrats and U.S. officials believe that Wikileaks might be working with Russia on this, which wouldn t be surprising since they hacked the DNC over the summer and are showing interest in trying to rig our election.Podesta has also accused Stone of having advance knowledge of what was going to be in Wikileaks email dump an accusation that Stone flatly denies: I have a back-channel communications with WikiLeaks, Stone told NBC News.
But they certainly don t clear or tell me in advance what they re going to do.'
What s the point of the communication, then?
Given what Wikileaks is busy doing trying to expose Hillary as corrupt, which could tilt the election in Trump s favor it s not really all that difficult to imagine that this back-channel communication is actually collusion directly between Stone and Assange.In fact, back in August, Stone said he was in direct communication with Assange and that they were actively working to bring down Hillary s campaign.
Speaking to the Southwest Broward Republican Organization, Stone referred directly to the so-called October surprise, saying, according to Mediaite: Well, it could be any number of things.
I actually have communicated with Assange.
I believe the next tranche of his documents pertain to the Clinton Foundation but there s no telling what the October surprise may be.
Lately, it seems that everything anyone involved with Trump tries to do to bring Hillary and the Democrats down backfires.
If Stone communicates with Wikileaks, that implicates the Trump campaign.
He s admitted to back-channel communication.
He has said he s spoken to Assange, although he denies it now.
This won t look good for Trump s already faltering campaign.Featured image via Ben Jackson/Getty Images for SiriusXM