On Friday, Donald Trump the guy who can t be trusted with a Twitter account was handed the launch codes to our nuclear weapons and the power to destroy lives.
Shortly after our nation handed him the keys to the car, he slammed on the gas and began heading for the cliff s edge, signing an executive order aimed at destroying President Obama s signature healthcare law and removing all mention of civil rights, climate change, and many other topics Republicans conveniently love to ignore as they pursue their ultimate goal of getting rid of all those goddamn brown-skinned people they think are ruining the country.
In short, you need a laugh.Fortunately, Saturday Night Live came through for us with a hilarious address to the nation not from Trump, but from the real winner of the election, Vladimir Putin.
Donald, let s talk as friends.
You re not off to a great start, man.
I thought you d be better at this.
However, I m glad to see so many people showed up at your inauguration, Beck Bennett s Putin said as an image of the Women s March on Washington appeared onscreen.
Oh wait, that s the women s march.
Here is inauguration.
The image changed to one of The Donald s pathetic Friday crowd.Comparing the crowds at Donald Trump s and Barack Obama s inaugurations https://t.co/U4dIVzCKbH pic.twitter.com/zf8hxVDMpO The New York Times (@nytimes) January 20, 2017 Today, you went to the CIA and said 1 million people came to see you in Washington, D.C.?
If you re going to lie, don t make it so obvious.
Say you are friends with Lebron James, not that you are Lebron James, Putin quipped.Trump and his team spent Saturday making excuses for the terrible crowd.
At first, supporters said that people skipped because of rain.
This swiftly shifted to the excuse that they all have jobs and needed to go to work.
Ultimately, Sean Spicer used his first press conference to inform everyone that it was actually the biggest crowd to ever appear, ever, and that floor mats were to blame for hiding all the people.
Trump, of course, falsely claimed that one million people showed up a clear sign that he can never measure up to Obama, for whom 1.8 million people came out from under the floor mats when he was first elected, even in The Donald s fantasies.The next four years will be a complete sh*tshow, but at least we have SNL at least until Trump follows in his puppetmaster s footsteps and starts killing his critics.Watch the opener below:Featured image via screengrab