These creeps will be out of jail and occupying another taxpaying American citizens home faster than you can say amnesty!
Five illegal immigrants have been arrested for squatting in a deployed soldier s home leaving it covered in feces and urine.The men have occupied the three-story home in Englewood, New Jersey, for at least a few weeks as its owner, a female soldier, is stationed out of the city.According to police, the conditions in the home were deplorable throughout , with evidence of partying and squalor.They discovered the disgusting scene after one of the men, 18-year-old Carlos Rosales-Campos, was arrested on Sunday following a theft at a nearby restaurant.Police determined he was squatting at the property on Lafayette Avenue, and when they went to inspect they found four more men living there.Rosales-Campos is in the country illegally from El Salvador, according to police.One of the men, 47-year-old Oswaldo Meneses-Arango, is a legal resident from Colombia.However, the other three Rosalio Valencia-Hernandez, 49; Rene Contreras-Ixtla, 39; and Evaristo Chavez, 34 are illegal immigrants from Mexico.Police have charged five men for squatting in a soldier s New Jersey home.
They found them on Sunday after arresting Carlos Rosales-Campos, 18, (pictured) over a burglary.
He is here illegally from El SalvadorBreak-insPolice said Rosales-Campos began his string of burglaries on Aug. 27, when he approached a manager of the Jackson Hole Diner and put a gun to his head and demanded the night s receipts.
No shots were fired and the manager was not hurt, but Rosales-Campos got away with more than $1,000 in cash, police said.Other incidents include:On Sept. 28, police said, Rosales-Campos stole the cash register and less than $500 from Colpan Bakery on James Street.
He is accused of stealing the cash register and less than $100 from Community Cleaners on Grand Avenue on Oct. 2.
On Oct. 6, tobacco products and a cash register were taken from Crown Fish & Chicken on West Englewood Avenue, police said.
The register had less than $500 in it.
On Oct. 15, the Jackson Hole Diner was burglarized, and Rosales-Campos was accused of taking a $500 laptop and tampering with the cash register.
On Oct. 21, he allegedly tried to break into the KNT Luncheonette on West Hudson Avenue but nothing was taken.
On Oct. 29, he allegedly stole about $500 worth of clothing and a cash register with $100 from Englewood Athletics on West Palisade Avenue.
A significant amount of the stolen merchandise was recovered and returned to the businesses, Torell said.Aside from Chavez, all of the men are homeless, police said.Evaristo Chavez, 34 and Rene Contreras-Ixtla, 39, are in the country illegally from MexicoOswaldo Meneses-Arango, 47, is the only legal resident of the five.
He hails from Colombia.
However, he was also charged with trespass alongside illegal Mexican immigrant, Rosalio Valencia-Hernandez, 49 (below)Northjersey.com reported that empty beer bottles, clothing and plastic gloves could be seen in the yard of the single-family home.
At the back, someone had knocked out a glass pane of the rear door.Rosales-Campos was charged with armed robbery, second-degree possession of a weapon with intent to use against a person, second-degree illegal handgun possession, six counts of third-degree burglary, third-degree attempted burglary, several counts of theft, fourth-degree possession of a fraudulent government I.D.
and one count fourth-degree criminal trespass.Via: UK Daily Mail