The south s red states have been on a right-wing tear lately, and despite national outrag shows no signs of slowing down.
The latest to draw the ire of the non-bigoted public is Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant, who just signed an incredibly hateful anti-LGBT bill into law.
Everyone from average citizens to influential public figures have taken to social media giant Twitter to let Governor Bryant know just how awful what he s done is.The bill quite literally creates something of an anti-LGBT Jim Crow, where it is now perfectly legal for businesses and other public places to discriminate against LGBT people and use their bibles as a shield to do so.
House Bill 1523 even shields government employees from having to perform same-sex marriages, despite the Supreme Court ruling legalizing marriage equality.
Here are just a few tweets the bigoted governor got as a result of making this hateful bill the law of the land in his state:Disappointing that Mississippi Gov @PhilBryantMS signed H.B.
1523.
IBM strongly opposes this discriminatory bill.
pic.twitter.com/BjGV8VQbzi IBMPolicy (@IBMpolicy) April 5, 2016@bluegal @PhilBryantMS just showed us that he doesn't care if #Mississippi fades into oblivion.
Why the heck not, It's his last term anyway!
Shanell No.
1 (@shwatson78) April 5, 2016Mississippi ranks last in education & median household income but governor is more concerned about the gays.
Hey, yall are #1 in bigotry now The Gay Burn Book (@SouthernHomo) April 5, 2016How sad.
Poor Mississippi, drifting backwards in time, floating away from us and humanity.
https://t.co/YqGmRhLjQO Neil Gaiman (@neilhimself) April 5, 2016Mississippi has the highest rate of poverty in the nation but they are passing laws to make sure that Gay people can't engage in commerce ?
Black Kenny (@Kenm215) April 5, 2016Mississippi Chamber of Commerce right now: pic.twitter.com/RHUwH8TzG8 Adam Goldstein (@A_H_Goldstein) April 5, 2016Even Montel Williams, who is a self-described conservative Christian, expressed outrage over this hateful law:In signing #HB1523 , @PhilBryantMS has chosen Mississippi s dark past over a bright future.
#ShameOnPhil pic.twitter.com/q6MKtZIQHv Montel Williams (@Montel_Williams) April 5, 2016Considering the many, many problems that Mississippi currently has, you d think they d be working on oh, you know, improving high school graduation rates, or perhaps eradicating poverty but no.
Instead, they are busily enshrining bigotry into law so that their state full of religious bigots can live to rant and rave another day about how the gays are the problem.Shame on you, Gov.
Bryant.
You really are the dinosaur that Twitter called you.Featured image via Raw Story/Facebook