The first reason the White House gave for President Donald Trump s firing of former FBI Director James Comey was that the president had received a recommendation from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.
This excuse was bolstered by the memo Rosentein had given that was critical of Comey, though it did not explicitly call for the president to fire Comey.For his part, Rosenstein was not happy that the actions Trump took around Comey were blamed on that memo.
Rosenstein has already demanded the White House correct the record about this.
As a consequence, Trump himself told Lester Holt that the decision to fire Comey was all his.
By all accounts, Rosenstein is a man of integrity.
According to the Wall Street Journal, Mr. Rosenstein left the impression that he couldn t work in an environment where facts weren t accurately reported The deputy attorney general objected to statements by White House aides citing Mr. Rosenstein s critical assessment of Mr.Comey s job performance to justify the firing.
If that is true, there is no way Rosenstein is going to have a long tenure in the Trump Department of Justice.
Not only does this administration have a hard time telling the truth, they have hard time knowing what the truth is.
This week alone, they claimed Rosenstein convinced the president that Comey should be fired, that Trump wanted Comey gone because of how badly he treated Hillary Clinton and that Comey told Trump that he wasn t under investigation.
The only one of these three statements that even has a chance of being credible is the first, and it has been shot down.This all comes after months and months of lies and misstatements.
The New York Times put together a list of all of the Tweets Trump has put out since he entered the White House.
The number of lies that he has told just through that medium is staggering.Rosenstein has a serious decision to make.
How seriously does he want to be taken?
How much of his reputation is he willing to sacrifice?
The chances seem good that he will have to bring on a special prosecutor to look into the Russia/Trump campaign link.
That is one way to salvage his reputation.
That may lead to his firing.
Whether he quits or is fired, his days in this administration are numbered.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.