There is no getting away from Donald Trump, and he can t get away from his impossibly offensive attitude toward women.
He s a sexual predator that has no problem asking men on The Apprentice to rate women based on their physical attributes, and talked freely about their breast size and whether he d consider sleeping with them.
That doesn t even touch his being proud of sexually assaulting women.Aside from that, this election cycle has brought out a certain type of antagonism and uncertainty about both candidates, particularly over their leadership styles and abilities.
Neil deGrasse Tyson sort of spoke to that when he asked the following question:If a Space Alien landed in the USA & requested: Take me to your leader , I wonder how Pres Trump would react vs Pres Clinton Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) October 14, 2016He probably didn t expect J.K. Rowling, the famous author of the Harry Potter series, to respond at all, let alone with the following burn:Afraid we need to know whether the alien has breasts before we can answer.
https://t.co/xHE9K5F7xt J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) October 14, 2016We don t care who you are, that s funny right there.
Why?
Because it s not only one of the biggest torches one can take to the catastrophe that is The Donald, but also because it keeps the fact that he s a danger to women and girls in the spotlight in a very mocking way.And, as we all know here, mocking King Cheeto is the only real way to deal with him on the internet.As another sign of how dangerous he is for women, he s busy calling all the women who ve accused him of sexual assault of being liars and seeking fame.
He also asked one of his crowds why women aren t coming forward about President Obama, since obviously, if they ll lie for the sole purpose of smearing him, they should also be willing to lie to smear people he hates.
In fact, they probably ought to be more willing, since he s absolutely amazing and everyone he hates is the scum of the Earth.Some others answered Tyson s question in a salty way, too:@neiltyson Grope them?
Zachary Shrier (@zshrier) October 14, 2016@neiltyson Depends if they appeared to be female.
Trump strokes his ego with abuses KimberlySAustralia (@kimsmit08234204) October 14, 2016@neiltyson @realDonaldTrump will ask do they have genetalia I can grab.
Chuck Nice (@chucknicecomic) October 14, 2016And then there are these, which poke fun at Trump s, ahem, policy positions, among other things:@neiltyson Would Trump fund the building of a Dyson Sphere to keep em out, or try to make aliens pay for it?
Freddy-Kruger Effect (@Jayextee) October 14, 2016@neiltyson he d have the best space aliens.
His space aliens are going to be so great, my god, you won t even believe it.
Jessica Hellis (@baddestmamajama) October 14, 2016@neiltyson Trump would immediately have a wall built around the alien and not pay the mason.
Tom (@TommieWho) October 14, 2016Tyson may have started a tiny shitstorm with this, but it s funny.
In the end, though, the answer to the Trump part of his question is this: Trump would very quietly let the aliens take us over through our computer systems, and conspire with them to take down all his enemies, including the Clintons.Then, when the questions and investigations reached their fever peak and everyone was clamoring to know what was going on, and he went on television to explain and reassure the public that he wasn t responsible for the chaos, he d look straight into the eyes of all of America, whip off his invisible glasses and say, Aliens.
Featured image by David Cheskin-Pool via Getty Images