Kellyanne Conway tried to spin White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer s lies as alternative facts and got her ass handed to her by Chuck Todd.The impromptu press briefing came two hours after Trump whined about media estimates of the inauguration crowd size during a visit at the CIA.Spicer lashed out at the media in an embarrassing display of how Trump apparently intends to use press briefings over the next four years.
Yesterday, at a time when our nation and the world was watching the peaceful transition of power and, as the President said, the transition and the balance of power from Washington to the citizens of the United States, some members of the media were engaged in deliberately false reporting, Spicer claimed.He then argued at length that This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration period both in person and around the globe.
Both claims are blatantly false as aerial photographs taken at the time of the inaugural address show that Trump s crowd was significantly smaller than both of President Obama s inaugurations in 2009 and 2013.
Trump also only drew 31 million viewers on television, which is 7 million less than President Obama drew in 2009.Spicer also tried to blame the count on the Secret Service, but even they refuted Spicer s claim that magnetometers prevented people from filling the National Mall.Overall, Spicer s attack on the media for accurately reporting on the size of the inauguration crowd was petty and a complete pile of bullshit.But Kellyanne Conway defended Spicer s lies on Sunday during an interview on Meet The Press.Conway began by once again bragging about the election results, which happened nearly three months ago, in response to Todd asking why Trump would send Spicer out to utter a provable falsehood.
Conway played the victim and then threatened Todd for asking questions she doesn t like.
And then she said this: Don t be so overly dramatic about it, Chuck.
They re saying it s a falsehood and our press secretary, Sean Spicer, gave alternative facts to that.
Yes, Conway literally called the lies that Trump ordered Spicer to spew alternative facts, and Todd proceeded to hammer Conway for it.
Wait a minute.
Alternative facts!
Four of the five facts that he uttered were just not true.
Alternative facts are not facts, they re falsehoods.
You sent the press secretary out there to utter a falsehood on the smallest, pettiest thing.
And I don t understand why you did it.
Conway then played the victim again and told Todd that the media can t prove that Spicer s numbers are wrong.
I don t think you can prove those numbers one way or the other.
You can laugh at me all you want.
You are, and I think it s actually symbolic of the way we re treated by the press.
I ll just ignore it.
I m bigger than that.
I m a kind and gracious person.
Here s the video via NBC.But the media has already proven Spicer s claims wrong.
Again, we have time-stamped aerial photographs that prove Trump s crowd size was sparse.
In fact, at most, Trump drew 750,000, which is smaller than numbers drawn by President Obama in 2009 and 2013.Even PolitiFact rated Spicer s temper tantrum as pants on fire.
Spicer said, That was the largest audience to witness an inauguration, period.
To support his claim, Spicer offered a few pieces of misleading or inaccurate evidence.He said that floor coverings highlighting empty spaces on the National Mall were not used for previous inaugurations, but these were in place for Obama s 2013 inauguration.He claimed metro ridership was higher for Trump s inaugural than for Obama s 2013 inaugural, but he compared numbers for the morning of Obama s inaugural to the whole day for Trump s.Spicer suggested 720,000 attended Trump s inauguration, while organizers said they expected 700,000 to 900,000, and Trump himself estimated 1.5 million.
All of those figures are less than the 1.8 million people who attended Obama s 2009 inaugural.We rate Spicer s claim Pants on Fire.Featured image via screenshot