While the mainstream media remains transfixed on a phony Trump-Russian collusion story, they completely ignore the real news, about how things appear to be heating up between Russian President Vladimir Putin and the U.S.A Marine Corps commandant on Thursday warned U.S. troops stationed in Norway to be prepared for a coming war.Neller pointed to the near future possibility of Russia and the Pacific theater being the next major areas of conflict.Sgt.
Maj. Ronald Green sounded a similar tone.
Just remember why you re here, Green said.
They re watching.
Just like you watch them, they watch you.
We ve got 300 Marines up here; we could go from 300 to 3,000 overnight.
We could raise the bar.
The warnings came a day before Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told troops at Fort Bragg, N.C., that storm clouds are gathering over the Korean Peninsula.Whether the comments were more than motivational rhetoric remained unclear.Neller and Green s arrival in Norway coincided with heightened tensions between the U.S. and its NATO allies and Russia.
According to Military.com, Russia warned Norway that its decision to host a new unit of U.S. troops through the end of 2018 would negatively affect relations.
FOX NewsAccording to UK Express, Russian President Putin said the US missile defense sites in Romania containing interceptor missiles could also house ground-to-ground intermediate-range cruise missiles, which would be in violation of the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty.He told the military officials that both the US and NATO have been accelerating build-up of infrastructure in Europe and emphasised that the deployment of NATO forces near Russia s borders had threatened its security.He said: When we move military units on our own territory, they present it as some kind of a threat.
And when they move military bases, infrastructure and new weapons near our borders they present it as something normal.
It s probably normal for those who do it, but not for us.
NATO has deployed military units to Poland and the Baltics to reassure allies worried over Russia s intentions following its 2014 annexation of Ukraine s Crimea and its support for pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.Mr Putin mentioned NATO s US-led missile defense system and efforts to develop new prospective conventional weapons among other security challenges.He added: They are searching for some violations on our part while consistently infringing on it themselves.
All that seriously affects security in Europe and in the whole world.
Mr Putin accused the US of violating a landmark Cold War-era nuclear arms pact and harbouring aggressive intentions, and pledged to fend off any potential threats.FOX News At a Q&A session with the troops in the Norwegian Home Guard base near Trondheim, Neller said that the U.S. could shift its focus from the Middle East to Eastern Europe, citing Russia s conflicts with Ukraine and Georgia as justification.
He told the Marines that they should be prepared for a big-ass fight on the horizon.Russia has reportedly been uneasy about the presence of American troops close to its borders.
The 300 U.S. Marines deployed to Norway in June 2016 were the first foreign troops allowed to operate in the country since World War II.In September of this year, Russia conducted a joint-military exercise with neighboring Belarus that involved 12,700 troops.A new National Security Strategy unveiled by the Trump administration on Monday singled out Russia and China as two world powers challenging American power, influence, and interests, attempting to erode American security and prosperity.
F