The GOP is scrambling to do damage control after its disgraceful presidential candidate called for the assassination of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton yesterday.
Prominent GOPers like Paul Ryan are brushing off Donald Trump s comments about the Second Amendment people shooting Clinton as a bad joke and the responses from the Trump campaign itself have been just as shameful.We knew Trump s team would try to spin those comments any way possible, but it seems that Trump finally made a comment serious enough that there is no way it could have been misinterpreted or skewed.
But when infamous Trump spokesperson Katrina Pierson went on MSNBC to try and explain Trump s statements, her logic left host Kate Snow literally speechless when Pierson tried to play it off like Trump had merely been talking about encouraging gun owners to vote against Clinton.
Pierson said: The NRA is a bipartisan organization.
And that is also left out of the discussion in the media, considering how there are even Democrats who won t touch gun legislation in an election year because the NRA has been able to take out Democrats as well.
Snow argued that Trump had called on gun owners to stop the former Secretary of State as if she had already been elected and was picking liberal Supreme Court justices.
Snow said: He s assuming she s in power.
And then says there s nothing you can do about it at that point Well, but maybe the Second Amendment people, maybe there is.
Pierson continued to insist that Trump was talking about the NRA being able to stop senators from appointing people that are hostile towards the Second Amendment.
Snow tried to make Pierson understand the severity of what Trump had said, whether it had been misinterpreted or not: If his words are misinterpreted as president, he will not get a do over as president of the United States.
I think that s what a lot of people are reacting too here.
You don t get a do over.
Pierson did what any GOPer does when they re cornered change the subject to blaming Obama and Clinton for everything.
Pierson suddenly began talking about the the horrible things that have already happened while Hillary Clinton was at the State Department and even threw Obama under the bus while she was at it.
Snow kept trying to keep Pierson on subject, pressing her: You have no concern about his ability as president if here were president to make an argument with foreign leaders, in negotiations and not be misconstrued or misunderstood?
What Pierson said next stunned Snow to the point where she had no words for several seconds.
Pierson said: He wasn t talking about policy.
He wasn t talking about implementation of policy.
He was talking about what would happen if Hillary Clinton were to be elected and he was absolutely right.
After a long, awkward silence, Snow finally said, I m speechless because I m trying to follow your logic here, Katrina, and I m having a hard time.
That s because with Trump, there is no logic there is only fear and insanity.You can watch Pierson s insane defense of Trump s comments below:Featured image via screenshots