Does Donald Trump have tapes of his conversations with fired FBI director James Comey?
Until Thursday, he said yes but after it became apparent that special prosecutor Robert Mueller had hired a team that included former Watergate investigators, Trump changed his story.Now, he says, he was just trying to obstruct justice by using the idea that there were tapes to intimidate James Comey before he testified a gambit that led to Comey laughing at him during a public hearing.At this point, Trump would be stupid to personally be in possession of any tapes of their conversations, but White House spokesidiot Kellyanne Conway hints that tapes may exist Trump just doesn t keep them in his nightstand like they are a book of Adolf Hitler s speeches (yes, he kept a book of Hitler s speeches at his bedside).During an interview with CNN s Alisyn Camerota, Conway refused to say why it took 42 days for The Donald to change his story about the tapes with which he threatened the man whom he fired for requesting additional funding for the Russia investigation but she used some very interesting wording while attempting to explain away Trump s self-made scandal.
So the president made clear yesterday and in an interview aired early this morning, Alisyn, on Fox News, that he doesn t have tapes didn t make tapes, but he left open the possibility they may exist, Conway said, hinting that because of the surveillance and leaking going on the tapes might just surface.
But why did we live this charade, there might be tapes or might not?
Camerota asked.
There was no charade, Conway replied.
Answer definitively there were no audiotapes?
Camerota pressed.
He answered definitively yesterday, Conway shot back.
Why is he always on your timeline?
Strangely, Conway nor Trump denied that tapes were made.
Trump just said he personally didn t record them which would have been a rookie move even for him and Conway explained that Trump wasn t personally in possession of them.As Republican Rep. Mike Conaway, who is leading the Russia probe, notes, that hardly clears things up.Watch it below:Featured image via screengrab