Senator Tim Kaine (D VA) , Hillary Clinton s running mate, made a heartfelt response to the recent shooting death of NBA star Dwyane Wade s cousin, Nykea Aldridge.
He told reporters that leaders should ought to be extending our sympathy to the family as the only reaction that s appropriate, while also expressing sadness about this gun violence issue.
Kaine on Trump's tweet about Dwyane Wade's cousin: "We just ought to be extending our sympathy to the family" pic.twitter.com/HGnb02EOku Thomas Kaplan (@thomaskaplan) August 27, 2016Kaine s statement came a few hours after Donald Trump generated a firestorm of responses when he sent out a self-congratulatory tweet about the death of Wade s relative.
Trump responded to the murder: Dwayne Wade s cousin was just shot and killed walking her baby in Chicago.
Just what I have been saying.
African-Americans will VOTE TRUMP!
Millions of people saw the tweet and hundreds responded to its crass exploitation of the death and for its ham-fisted messaging towards African-Americans.Wade issued a series of tweets after Trump s stumble, pointing out the need to curb gun violence, especially in cities like Chicago, where his cousin lived.
Trump has been endorsed by the Natonal Rifle Association (NRA), who has fought tooth and nail against any and all efforts to reduce gun violence, especially background checks and limits on gun magazine sizes.
The NRA has already committed several million dollars towards electing Trump president this year.RIP Nykea Aldridge #EnoughIsEnough DWade (@DwyaneWade) August 27, 2016The city of Chicago is hurting.
We need more help& more hands on deck.
Not for me and my family but for the future of our world.
The YOUTH!
DWade (@DwyaneWade) August 27, 2016These young kids are screaming for help!!!
#EnoughIsEnough DWade (@DwyaneWade) August 27, 2016Trump s latest stumble comes as his campaign claims that he is in the process of reaching out to the black community for votes.
But in reality Trump has been on a tear, insulting blacks by painting a picture of their lives as hopeless, jobless, and living exclusively in the inner cities.
Many blacks have spoken out against the portrait that Trump has been painting in front of almost totally white audiences in several states.Polling currently indicates that despite President Obama not being on the ballot in November, Trump could possibly attract even less black votes than Mitt Romney and John McCain.Featured image via screen capture