Earlier today, the disgraced former host of MSNBC, Keith Olbermann, tweeted a picture of conservative Tomi Lahren, and admonished her for using the U.S. flag as apparel .
Donald Trump used a screen shot of his tweet and placed it next to a photo of Olbermann wrapped up in an American flag with the flag resting on the ground around him.
Trump Jr. s tweet said: Life is hard; it s even harder when you re stupid.
Trump Jr. s tweet went viral.Life is hard; it s even harder when you re stupid.
pic.twitter.com/rpS7svtfvf Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 29, 2017Only a little more than 4 hours later, the New York Post reported that Ohio Gov.
John Kasich is plotting his third run for president.The New York Post tweeted:John Kasich is reportedly plotting another run for president https://t.co/4bQnEN3esS pic.twitter.com/FCn1HqF5A6 New York Post (@nypost) October 29, 2017Kasich, who s term in Ohio ends in 2018, has kept a skeletal campaign staff from last year s race and they re helping him decide whether he should pursue a primary run as a Republican or as an Independent in the general election in 2020, the magazine said.He denied he s plotting a run, saying that s just not where my head is right now during an interview Sunday on Fox News Sunday.
But he told the magazine the Republican Party needs to update its platform.
I think we need to be pro-environment, he told New York for this week s edition.
I think we need to completely redo education.
Look, I loved Ronald Reagan.
I met Ronald Reagan.
But Reagan was then.
Now we gotta move on.
A persistent critic of the president s coarse tone, Kasich told the publication that Trump s election and the failure of Republican leaders to publicly condemn his actions is a momentary lapse of reason.
He said he would represent a different viewpoint, insisting he wants to restore basic principles of caring, of love, of compassion, of connectedness.
There has to be a fundamental change, in my opinion, with all of us.
I m willing to be part of that.
I want my voice to be out there.
I want it very, very much, he said.But criticizing the commander in chief is one thing, launching a Republican challenge to a sitting president is another.Donald Trump Jr., had a simple, but perfect reply that pretty much sums up how most Republicans feel when they think of Governor John Kasich running for President again LOL!LOL https://t.co/li2EMoreBd Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) October 29, 2017Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a Republican, lashed out at Kasich, saying His behavior if not that of a regular Republican.
He s also been criticized in his home state for being a RINO Republican in Name Only after he supported expanding Medicaid, a move that put him at odds with GOP hardliners.