Liberals on Twitter just can t find enough reasons to hate Trump or anyone connected to him.
Tonight, libs went nuts over a picture that was taken of Kellyanne Conway in the Oval Office as she positioned herself on a couch (gasp with her shoes still on) while taking a group picture, as President Trump met with the leaders of the nation s historically black colleges and universities.
Hmmm .maybe the anger wasn t really about Conway s shoes after all.
Maybe the outrage is really more about the idea that President Trump met with a large group of prominent black leaders in the oval office.
They couldn t attack the black leaders, so why not attack one of the most accomplished women in America?Things must be slow at the liberal rag Buzzfeed, as their DEPUTY NEWS DIRECTOR took to Twitter over his concern for Kellyanne Conway wearing her shoes while kneeling on the couch in the Oval Office:Shoes on the couch in the Oval Office pic.twitter.com/h2MXUocEar Jon Passantino (@passantino) February 28, 2017And this from a Chicago Tribune columnist:I have so many questions about this photo, but chief among them is why nobody is telling Kellyanne Conway to get her damn feet off the couch pic.twitter.com/tU0CBS36Fe Rex Huppke (@RexHuppke) February 28, 2017Here s our response to this clever tweeter who attempted to imagine if Hillary Clinton actually put her shoes up on the couch in the Oval Office.
Yeah, never mind that whole Monica Lewinsky thing with Bill in the Oval Office.
Kellyanne s shoes on the couch is much worse than Hillary s husband committing sex acts with a 19 year old intern in the Oval Office.
LOL!You've clearly forgotten what @HillaryClinton's husband did in the Oval Office.He turned it into cheap motel for 19 yr old interns 100% FED UP!
(@100PercFEDUP) February 28, 2017You d think a Motherboard climate change freak reporter would be using every waking moment to cover the changes Trump s EPA is about to implement but no, this reporter is consumed with Kellyanne Conway s shoes on the couch, suggesting she may even need therapy .
We could ve told you that before you tweeted!
LOL i have to go to therapy after seeing the kellyanne conway shoes on the couch pic Sarah Emerson (@SarahNEmerson) February 28, 2017Here s a screen shot of liberal Kaivan Sheriff s post.
He blocked us on Twitter, so we had to settle for an image of his tweet.
Apparently he feels threatened by two moms who tweet about real news Here are just a few examples of Obama doing much worse.
Yeah, okay libs wanna talk about disrespecting the Oval Office?
We saved the best one for last:People "outraged" at Kellyanne Conway putting her feet on a couch so she can take a photo, but pic.twitter.com/6IW5Iv31qW Paul Sacca (@Paul_Sacca) February 28, 2017https://twitter.com/PolitiBunny/status/836409990915162112