Bernie Sanders has a knack for being able to look at issues facing our society and to point them out bluntly.
Unlike most politicians who dance around issues, Sanders is a straight talker and he doesn t shy away from telling it how it is.
Whether his style emanates from decades of activism and politics, or whether it s just as a result of experiencing life, his style is refreshing, especially for a politician.His approach was on display on Thursday when he spoke at a rally attended by thousands of Native Americans at Twin Arrows Navajo Casino east of Flagstaff, Arizona.
The culture of Native Americans is so rich, so important, that all of us will gain by preserving it, he said.Sanders conceded that the US government has not treated Native Americans well and that he would work to better the relationship once he becomes president.
He said: Native American people have been lied to, cheated, and negotiated treaties have been broken.
Often, Native American people have not been heard on issues that affect their communities.
They have been told what to do, they have not been involved in the process.
Sanders also touched on issues directly affecting the Native American community, promising to work to raise the minimum wage once he becomes president.
Directly addressing Arizona Gov.
Doug Ducey, who has threatened to take away state support from cities that set their own minimum wage higher than the state s, Sanders said:I say to this, governor, I ve got some bad news for you, we re going to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
I will fight for a $15 minimum wage, there s nothing the governor can do about it.
It is stunning to me that a governor would want to prevent the minimum wage from going up.
Sanders also discussed his idea of tuition free public education, an idea that can empower a generation of Americans and prevent them from sinking into college debt as previous generations have.
He said: The world has changed, the economy has changed.
People today need more education.
When you talk about public education today, you need to talk about making public colleges tuition-free.
I believe we need to have the best-educated workforce in the global economy.
It makes no sense to me that we have hundreds of thousands of people who are not getting an education because they can t afford it.
All people would be eligible.
Sanders, whose rallies have drawn thousands, drew cheers from the crowd.
His ideas are attractive to millions of Americans and if last night s rally is any indication, the 2016 Democratic nomination for the presidency isn t over by a long shot.Watch Video Here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmIYRl9Ofns]Featured image via Wikimedia Commons