New questions are being asked about President Donald Trump s ability to lead after he slurred his words during a speech about his Jerusalem decision.
Possible reasons for this include: fatigue, a dry mouth (the White House explanation), the use of drugs or alcohol, a problem with his dentures or more troubling issues dealing with his mental or physical health.
Morning Joe reported this morning that, unlike other presidents, Trump has opted not to get his physicals at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center.Questions about Trump s mental stability have been growing over the last few months.
While he has never been viewed as a stable person in the traditional sense, his tweets and comments have gotten more erratic.
He was widely criticized recently when he retweeted several anti-Muslim videos that were posted by radicals in the United Kingdom.One psychiatrist talk to MSNBC s Lawrence O Donnel about his impressions of Trump s state of mind.Many think that any degradation in Trump s mental state may be due to the increased pressure he is feeling from Robert Mueller s investigations into collusion between his campaign and the Russian government.
This has increased since former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI.All of this talk is leading to more people to ask if Trump should be removed from office, citing the 25th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
Rep. Jamie D. Raskin (D-MD) has circulated a dear colleague letter suggesting just that.
As published in the Washington Post, it says: Please join a rapidly growing group of colleagues in cosponsoring H.R.
1987, the Oversight Commission on Presidential Capacity Act.
It sets up and defines the Congressionally-appointed body called for by the 25th Amendment.
Under Section 4 of the 25th Amendment, the Vice-President and a majority of the Cabinet or the Vice-President and a majority of such other body as Congress may by law provide can determine that the President is for reasons of physical or mental incapacity unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office.
The 25th Amendment was added to the Constitution in 1967, but in the last 50 years Congress never created the body that its language contemplated.
Perhaps it never occurred to prior Congresses that setting up this body was necessary.
For obvious reasons, it is indeed necessary, and now is the time for us to do it.
While the Republicans in the Cabinet and Congress may not yet be ready to take this step, it is out there.Featured image via Andrew Burton/Getty Images