Last year, a Wisconsin man was busted for threats he made against President Obama s life.
This wasn t just an instance of someone who has been brainwashed spouting off about lynching ( hanging for Treason ) the President.
Brian Dennis Dutcher actually intended to kill the President, even if he had to use a slingshot.
During a July 15 visit to Wisconsin, a threat lurked in the shadows.
The usurper is here and if I get a chance I ll take him out and I ll take the shot, Dutcher told a security guard at a La Crosse library as he prepared his attack against the President something conservative media had convinced Dutcher was his Constitutional duty.
Sure, he may have just been making small talk Nice weather today.
I m going to kill the President.
but Dutcher s Facebook posts leading up to the vocalization of his plot reveal that this is something he had been openly planning.
I have been praying on going to D.C. for 3 months and now the upsurper is coming HERE.
saving me a 800 mile trip, wrote in a June 30 Facebook post.
Doing what I do for my daughter, so she can live free.
pray for me to succeed in my mission.
Dutcher explained to his friends and family that it is his CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY TO TAKE ACTION because the gov has declaired war on us.
Another post, which Dutcher had deleted explained his plan in more detail: that s it!
Thursday I will be in La Crosse.
Hopefully I will get a clear shot at the pretend president.
Killing him is our CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY!
Numerous other posts complained that Secret Service was stopping people like him from taking the shot.
Dutcher even told a detective in no uncertain terms that his threat was serious and he would not have said what he said if he didn t intend to carry it out.
In fact, he told Secret Service his intent was to circumvent security and figure out how to shoot (Obama) with a slingshot.
Dutcher, referencing the Biblical story of David and Goliath, told law enforcement that he could easily kill a human Bart Simpson style.Each of the many times he threatened the President could have landed him in prison for up to five years and cost him $250,000.
Despite the very real nature of his promise to murder President Obama, the would-be assassin was only sentenced to three years in prison and three years of supervised release.This is exactly why conservatives feel it is acceptable to threaten the President.
No matter how clear their intentions, no matter how many times they explain the ways they will exucute (to use Dutcher s word) Barack Obama, they receive the equivalent of a slap on the wrist.Dutcher will likely be seen as a martyr to the Revolution by our frenemies on the Right, but the truth is that he is a symptom of a cancer in society that we must cut out before it is too late.Featured image via Addicting Info archives