Brand new White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer is off to a rough start.
In just a few days, the media has been relentless for calling him out on his never-ending stream of lies, or, as Kellyanne Conway put it, alternative facts.
Publicly, everything seems peachy keen after all, the boss has been known to fudge a truth or a few thousand.
Privately, though, there s word that the Trump White House is already looking to replace its first scapegoat.
Not, though, because of the lies.
Trump s not a fan of Spicer s performance because of optics:Politico Playbook alum Mike Allen writes, This West Wing is a tough neighborhood.
Even AFTER Sean Spicer s successful get-back-on-the-horse presser yesterday, I m told that a top White House official was discussing his possible replacement.
On Day 4!
He continues, reporting that Trump himself is displeased with Spicer for reasons completely divorced from his argumentative skills.
Unfortunately for Spicer, Trump is obsessed with his press secretary s performance art.
Our Jonathan Swan hears that Trump hasn t been impressed with how Spicer dresses, once asking an aide: Doesn t the guy own a dark suit?
Source: MediaiteTrump s problem with Spicer has nothing to do with the media s calling him out on his lies.
If anything, for Trump, Spicer didn t lie enough, and he certainly didn t prop up his new Commander-in-Chief enough:Many critics thought Spicer went too far and compromised his integrity.
But in Trump s mind, Spicer s attack on the news media was not forceful enough.
The president was also bothered that the spokesman read, at times haltingly, from a printed statement.Trump has been resentful, even furious, at what he views as the media s failure to reflect the magnitude of his achievements, and he feels demoralized that the public s perception of his presidency so far does not necessarily align with his own sense of accomplishment.Source: Washington PostAs for Trump preferring a woman, don t take that as a sign that the glass ceiling will break during Trump s administration.
Trump wants a spokesmodel who he can easily manipulate.While Spicer might get better at his job and at predicting his boss wants, press secretaries don t have a lot of job stability.
None have lost their jobs after less than a week though.Featured image by Shawn Thew via Getty Images