Governor Rick Snyder and his emergency management team have literally poisoned the water in Flint, Michigan.
The city is literally in the middle of a public health emergency, and Snyder is being roundly criticized for his actions that could have permanent effects on the lives of the children living there who have been drinking and bathing in lead-poisoned water.Politicians and emergency workers around the nation have been gravely concerned about the situation in Flint, and many are doing what they can to bring an end to the water crisis and aid those poor residents affected by it.
One such politician is Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
She sent two of her best and most trusted campaign staff to the suffering city of Flint, to do whatever they could to help in this time of dire need.
Clinton s proactive response has earned her the endorsement of Flint s mayor, Karen Weaver.
The mayor said of Clinton s response to the crisis: If this was a test, she has really come to the forefront and passed it because we in Flint need some help and we need it now.
The statement came during a conference call that was the work of Clinton s campaign.
It seems as if the endorsement wasn t part of Weaver s planned press releases from the call, but, nonetheless it happened.
She said, when asked if she was giving Clinton her endorsement: Yeah it does sound like it, doesn t it?
I want Hillary.
Weaver went on to mention that others had expressed outrage and concern over what was going on in Flint, but action was what got Hillary her endorsement.
We do want some accountability.
But as far as what Hillary Clinton has done, she has actually been the only candidate, whether we re talking about Democratic or Republican, to reach out and talk with us We want a friend like Hillary in the White House.
This is a very important endorsement from a mayor who has suddenly found herself thrust onto the national stage because of reckless decisions by a GOP governor who doesn t give a damn about the people he is supposed to serve.Whether it s Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders, hopefully both would work to get Rick Snyder and those like him out of positions of power before they can ruin anymore lives.There have been at least three class action lawsuits filed on behalf of those living in Flint who are affected by the poisoned water.
According to attorneys for the city of Flint s residents, the consequences for what Rick Snyder has done could be dire, and those responsible must be held accountable, and taken from their positions: Public officials must never again be permitted to give assurances to the public about public health conditions when they know the assurances are false.
Public officials must never again be permitted to ruin the lives of our children by remaining silent in the face of a public health emergency.
That is exactly right.
Hillary and other Democrats, thank you for doing what you are doing.
These people need your support so much right now.
This isn t about politics, it s about people s lives.
Hopefully others follow in Clinton s footsteps and send desperately needed AID to Flint, Michigan.Featured image via Twitter