Sam Brownback and the current GOP-led Kansas legislature have all but destroyed Kansas.
It s so bad that a coalition of former Kansas governors, along with current political leaders, is working to raise money to oppose Brownback s disastrous policies before they wipe Kansas off the map entirely.
They re called the Save Kansas Coalition, and they re not all Democrats.
Not by far.The main problem is that the state cut taxes to try and turn Kansas into the bastion of business and tourism that Texas and Florida supposedly are, but that failed miserably and now the state is worse than broke.
To fight to get Kansas back on track, former Democratic governors Kathleen Sebelius and John Carlin are joined by former Republican governors Mike Hayden and Bill Graves, and all four are working to educate Kansas public about what s actually happening versus what Brownback wants people to think is happening.They can t even fund their schools halfway properly because their budget is such a mess.The Save Kansas Coalition wants balanced taxes, high-quality public education, and access to healthcare, along with judicial impartiality, safer highways, and job growth.
Brownback s policies are not conducive to any of this.
He s a hardcore, balanced-budget, cutting-taxes-will-stimulate-the-economy-so-we-can-balance-the-budget Republican who doesn t get it.In fact, his policies have driven some business out of the state.
One such business owner, Jeff Blackwood, is working to relocate his business onto the Missouri side of Kansas City, saying: I can t, in good conscience, continue to give our tax money to a government that actively works against needs of its citizens We take care of people here and that is exactly the opposite of what is occurring.
The funding problems have led to the closure of a mental health hospital and a state rehab office for the disabled, not to mention what s happening with the school system there.
Brownback s spokesperson said that his policies have led to five straight years of business growth, and yet, the state is floundering horrifically.Brownback and the Republicans in the state legislature don t seem to realize that cutting taxes means taxes get cut, which causes budget shortfalls, which snowballs into a bankrupt state if it s not quickly addressed.
Back in November, Kansas was looking at having a whopping $5.6 million in cash reserves.
In other words, peanuts, because the projected tax revenue just wasn t there.The Save Kansas Coalition wants people to be aware of how serious their votes are.
Brownback and company didn t get into office by accident the people of Kansas voted for these policies.
If they vote to re-elect these ignorant pusnoodles, they ll be voting for more of the same problems since Brownback can t admit that he screwed everything up, and as such, will continue to beat this particular dead horse no matter what.Featured image by Win McNamee/Getty Images