Ah, the ultimate Trump fangirl, with the exception of Sarah Palin (gag).
Both of them are enamored of Trump, and it s not hard to believe that they might even think they re in love with him.
Palin s just an idiot about it, though.
Ann Coulter, though?
She s a very cunning racist closed-mind who wants Trump to win so badly that she would make voting rights for every group of people here disappear entirely.
Except her own, of course.
Maybe.Last night s tweet about it was probably one of the most egregious of ideas for how to ensure that we crown King Trump:If only people with at least 4 grandparents born in America were voting, Trump would win in a 50-state landslide.
Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) November 8, 2016HAHAHAHAHAHAHA!
The funny thing is that if we went by that standard, Trump s own kids couldn t vote for him.
Trump himself couldn t even vote all his grandparents came from Europe, as did his mother, which excludes Tiffany.
So even his grandkids, if they were of age, couldn t vote for him.And then there s Melania, who worked in this country illegally.
For all we know, she stole a modeling job from an American model who badly needed the work.
Going by Coulter s logic, she shouldn t be allowed to cast a vote for her husband.
But then again, Trump s logic about immigrants would send Melania back to Slovenia, since there s a chance she stole a job from a hardworking American.Then there are all the people with four grandparents that were born here who still think Trump is a racist prick and would never vote for him.
My family history here goes all the way back to before we were even a country.
In fact, my family was here almost 150 years before the Declaration of Independence was signed.
Plenty of others like me feel the same, but of course a racist like Coulter didn t think of that.Actually, it s very likely that all she thought of was eliminating the Latino vote, because many Latinos are first- or second-generation, and tend to vote Democratic.
She didn t think of all the members of her kind who are likewise first- and second-generation, who couldn t vote at all if her idea became law.And what of her own family history?
She considers herself, and her family, settlers rather than immigrants (they were immigrants).
She would qualify to vote under her idea, so of course most other white conservatives would.
She didn t think this through at all.
Or maybe she did, but she s so ignorant about the makeup of this country that she has no idea what she just said.
She s gone from being an annoyance to being one hell of a joke.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images