The Media Research Center, a right-wing media analysis organization, held its annual black-tie affair last week.
The Baltimore police officers who are directly responsible for the death of Freddie Gray last year attended, were brought up on stage, and applauded and honored and giving a standing ovation for their work, all while a right-wing talking head glossed over the problems of police brutality.Deneen Borelli, a frequent Fox News contributor, complained loudly that these cops lives and careers were ruined by the lies surrounding Freddie Gray s death.
Gray died after his spine was nearly severed due to a rough and unsecured ride in the back of a van.
He was handcuffed and put in leg irons, but not belted in at all.
Later, officers said he d suffered a medical emergency, but they failed to get him help.Borelli lamented: These five men and one woman, all veteran police officers, were now in handcuffs, fighting for their lives, their careers destroyed, bankrupted, humiliated No one apologized for ruining their lives.
No one thanked them for their service or recognized their honor.
Who will thank these officers?
Who will thank all police officers at a time they are being so vilified?
Tonight, ladies and gentlemen, we will.
This is disgusting.Patently disgusting.The media doesn t jump to vilify the police we have a serious problem with police brutality, particularly against the black community, and the media is shining a light on it.
In Baltimore, officers who were witnesses to the case were also on the team investigating Gray s death.
Lead detectives started their own counter-investigations to disprove the state s case.
The system works for officers, and against their victims.Victims like Freddie Gray.
While Borelli whines that nobody s apologized to these officers who, in her view no doubt, were merely doing their duty and then braved the aftermath with grace and courage, Gray is still dead.
He died as a direct result of these officers actions.To point this out, though, makes us anti-police.
We re police-haters when we point out brutality.
Idiots like Franklin Graham say the best way to stop this is for people to just comply with police orders, and yet, many of the black people who die are complying with police orders.Seriously, the Media Research Center ought to be ashamed of itself for this.
These cops lives and careers wouldn t have been ruined if they d actually done their entire job.Watch Borelli s remarks below, beginning at the 1:11:50 mark:Featured image via screen capture