After a federal court struck down the new version of the Muslim ban (which was basically just like the first one) Donald Trump called it judicial overreach at a rally in Nashville, Tennessee, and said that it makes our country look weak.
And now, the federal judge in Hawaii who ruled against Trump s newest version of a Muslim ban is inundated with threatening messages since the ruling, according to the FBI.
Hours before the ban was to go into effect, US District Judge Derrick Watson s ruling resulted in a temporary restraining order nationwide.
This was the second time a court ruled against Trump s executive order which resulted in chaos worldwide.
Travellers were in mid-flight after the alleged president signed the first one.
Protests at airports ensued after people were detained without notice.The FBI did not provide details as to the location the threats are coming from, however, the agency did say they are coming from within the mainland.The U.S.
Marshals Service has had to fly in about a dozen deputies from the mainland to provide 24-hour protection for Watson, according to HawaiiNewsNow.
The FBI said it will assist the the U.S.
Marshals Service if necessary to protect the judge.
The illogic of the government s contentions is palpable.
The notion that one can demonstrate animus toward any group of people only by targeting all of them at once is fundamentally flawed, Watson wrote in the ruling.
Trump s own words were used against him in the ruling.Hawaii News Now KGMB and KHNLThreats against a federal judge or his or her family is a federal crime and is considered obstruction of justice.
Trump went on a tweetstorm against the first federal judge who ruled against his travel ban.Even Neil Gorsuch, Trump s Supreme Court nominee who is hoping to take Merrick Garland s stolen seat, called the alleged president s tweets attacking federal judges disheartening and demoralizing.
Still yet, White House press secretary Sean Spicer denied that Gorsuch was referring to Trump.More than one judge has been the target of threats after Trump publicly criticized them.
That includes a Seattle judge known for his conservative legal views, who was appointed by George W. Bush.It s clear that Trump is inciting these threats, knowing full well that his die-hard supporters will do his bidding.
LOCK HIM UP!Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images.