Among the findings:A Complex Fiscal Picture Welfare use.
Our findings show that many of the preconceived notions about the fiscal impact of illegal households turn out to be inaccurate.
In terms of welfare use, receipt of cash assistance programs tends to be very low, while Medicaid use, though significant, is still less than for other households.
Only use of food assistance programs is significantly higher than that of the rest of the population.
Also, contrary to the perceptions that illegal aliens don t pay payroll taxes, we estimate that more than half of illegals work on the books.
On average, illegal households pay more than $4,200 a year in all forms of federal taxes.
Unfortunately, they impose costs of $6,950 per household.The Impact of Amnesty.
Finally, our estimates show that amnesty would significantly increase tax revenue.
Because both their income and tax compliance would rise, we estimate that under the most likely scenario the average illegal alien household would pay 77 percent ($3,200) more a year in federal taxes once legalized.
While not enough to offset the 118 percent ($8,200) per household increase in costs that would come with legalization, amnesty would significantly increase both the average income and tax payments of illegal aliens.What s Different About Today s Immigration.
Many native-born Americans observe that their ancestors came to America and did not place great demands on government services.
Perhaps this is true, but the size and scope of government were dramatically smaller during the last great wave of immigration.
Not just means-tested programs, but expenditures on everything from public schools to roads were only a fraction of what they are today.
Thus, the arrival of unskilled immigrants in the past did not have the negative fiscal implications that it does today.
Moreover, the American economy has changed profoundly since the last great wave of immigration, with education now the key determinant of economic success.
The costs that unskilled immigrants impose simply reflect the nature of the modern American economy and welfare state.
It is doubtful that the fiscal costs can be avoided if our immigration policies remain unchanged.
Center For Immigration Study