People have been quick to point out that there is a clear double standard in the media and people s attitudes regarding the armed occupation of the Malheur Wildlife Refuge headquarters in Oregon.
CNN law enforcement analyst Art Roderick gave a blatant example of this double standard when he appeared on a broadcast of CNN s, in this case, dubiously titled Reliable Sources, on Sunday.During the segment, Roderick made the case that the militia members occupying the federal building are not looting anything which makes them way less of a threat to people s safety than say, Black Lives Matters protestors.
The last thing we need is some type of large confrontation because that s when stuff goes bad, Roderick explained.
And I think in this particular instance, if we just wait them out, see what they ve got to say, then eventually, they re all going to go home.
CNN host Brian Stelter was quick to point out that some have said that if, [These were] Black Lives Matter protesters, or if these were peaceful Muslim Americans, they would be treated very differently by law enforcement.
This is a very rural area, Roderick responds.
It is out in the middle of nowhere.
What are they actually doing?
They re not destroying property; they re not looting anything.
It s important to remember that in the United States, rural means white, and urban means black.
I mean, there s a whole separate situation going on as to exactly why they re there and that will be worked out through the legal process, he continued.
But I think now that they ve taken over this location out at the fish and wildlife, this brings in the federal side.
And I know the federal government has learned over the years how to deal with these types of incidences.
Let s face it, we all know if a Black Lives Matter group of protesters, or any group that isn t legitimized by the white supremacist narrative of the right wing, was to do the same thing as these wannabe revolutionary cowboys are doing, they would have been demonized in the press and probably killed outright by federal authorities.
No one was calling for calmer heads when police beat the hell out of BLM protesters.You can watch the segment below.Featured Image Credit: Screenshot via YouTube