Donald Trump spent months on the campaign trail bashing NATO, the cornerstone of global security after World War II.
However, President Obama said Monday that Trump is now committed to NATO, the alliance he once referred to as obsolete.
Trump told President Obama that he plans to stick with NATO, according to The Hill.
He expressed a great interest in maintaining our core strategic relationships, Obama said.
And so, one of the messages I will be able to deliver is his commitment to NATO and the Transatlantic Alliance.
I think that s one of the most important functions I can serve at this stage during this trip.
is to let them know that there is no weakening of resolve when it comes to America s commitment to maintaining a strong and robust NATO relationship and a recognition that those alliances aren t just good for Europe, they re good for the United States, he continued.
And they re vital for the world.
So, why the change of heart?
Trump had no idea how to lead a country.
Even Trump was surprised over the scope of the new job he was elected to do.
He has zero political experience, after all.
Trump s team reportedly was unaware of the fact that he needed to hire a full White House staff upon taking the Oval Office.And now, Trump is going to learn how to be a leader from President Obama.Trump aides didn t know entire West Wing had to be hired; Obama, after meeting Trump, plans to spend more time w himhttps://t.co/ZLTpsqSwGe pic.twitter.com/x4edzsf8uY Michael C. Bender (@MichaelCBender) November 14, 2016That s right.
The man conservatives hate is going to babysit Donald Trump and hold his little hands to guide him through the process.
Trump thought this would be an easy job.
For years, conservatives said Obama wasn t experienced enough and called him the Community-Organizer-In-Chief.
For the record, Obama had many years worth of experience.Just to keep score here: Trump is not going to fully repeal Obamacare.
Mexico is not going to pay for the wall.
And he s now embracing NATO.
Trump voters have been played for suckers.Photo by Mark Wilson via Getty