21st Century Wire says Here s an unusual, but extremely thought-provoking political take on the events of last week in Charlottesville in the context of America, and western society as a whole.What you are about to read will be considered very controversial by many people.
This is an uncomfortable topic which generally no one enjoys talking about.
Many readers may not want to hear it.
You may not want to hear it either.
It s a caustic conversation for sure.
You might think the author is being over-dramatic, or maybe you won t But it s a discussion which at least half of America wants to have.The publication, The Blaze, touts itself as Christian conservative and regularly exaggerate and politicizes its content, and frequently applies a moralistic or evangelical spin to it.
For those reasons, it would be convenient for some to simply dismiss the article below because of its source.
However, the fundamental comparison presented should be seriously considered and really should be discussed more in mainstream forums.
In 2017, any challenging commentary regarding the topic of abortion is fiercely opposed by progressive gatekeepers, and women s rights activists who will often cite the 1973 US Supreme Court decision of Roe vs Wade as a cue to end any debate on the issue.
This subject is also suppressed in most public and academic forums and it s strictly off-limits in the liberal mainstream corporate media.
But society cannot continually sweep this under the rug America has to have this conversation, because it goes to the heart of the question.
What kind of society do we live in ?
.
By Matt WalshIt was interesting timing.
On Monday, CBS published an article touting Iceland s miracle cure for Down syndrome.
Iceland is on pace to virtually eliminate Down syndrome through abortion, the headline read.
Of course, it leaves out an important word.
Iceland is eliminating Down syndrome people not Down syndrome itself by killing anyone who has the condition.
Many countries, including our own, have discovered an identical treatment plan.The next day, Oregon was the beneficiary of similarly sanitized headlines.
The governor of Oregon signed legislation expanding reproductive health access, the media reported.
But the reports are misleading.
The law actually forces all residents in the state to pay for abortions for anyone who wants them, including illegal aliens.
The bill has nothing at all to do with reproduction.
Its goal is precisely to stop reproduction.
Or at least to prevent the products of reproduction from ever seeing the light of day.I said the reports of these atrocities are interestingly timed because they come amidst a national panic over neo-Nazism.
We are right to be disgusted and horrified by the few dozen white supremacist losers who carried Tiki torches through Charlottesville on Saturday.
And we are right to demand justice for the woman who was killed by a skinhead terrorist during that same rally.
But we are ridiculous for acting as if these racist nerds represent some threat to our national existence.
Until there is even a shred of proof to the contrary, I am going to remain confident that the vast, vast, vast majority of our citizens do not sympathize with Nazism outright.
Even one neo-Nazi is too many.
A whole parade of them is a travesty.
But we ought not lose our grip on reality.
A little perspective is all I m suggesting.Now, the reader may have noted the conspicuous qualifier in the previous paragraph.
The majority of our citizens do not sympathize with Nazism outright.
Many, however, sympathize with some of the primary goals and most brutal tactics of the Nazi party.
Though they may not think of it in those terms, they still celebrate the achievement of eliminating medical conditions by killing the babies who have it, and they applaud governments that expand reproductive health access by forcing helpless citizens to fund the mass extermination of human beings.
They may not march through the streets waving swastikas around, but they look with indifference or approval at our own version of the Nazi death camp.
Indeed, with all due respect to the skinheads who only play pretend Nazi, the spirit of the Nazi movement really lives on in the abortion industry.
Planned Parenthood may not hang the Nazi flag on the doors of its clinics, but it has enough blood on its hands to impress even the most prolific concentration camp executioner.I made this point yesterday, and I was informed even by some conservative folk that it is utterly inappropriate and insensitive for me to make such comparisons, especially when a woman was just killed by a neo-Nazi.
Well, I feel terribly for that woman s family and I hope for the swiftest and harshest judgment allowed under the law to be done upon her murderer.
But I also feel terribly for the 17,000 or so human beings who were executed in abortion clinics since Saturday, and the 60 million who ve been exterminated since 1973.
I don t think there is ever an inappropriate time to acknowledge them, particularly when so many of us have dedicated ourselves to never acknowledging them, and especially during a week when the very people who support the continued legalization and tax funding of abortion death camps are running around accusing everyone else of condoning Nazism.I m sorry, but I just cannot physically stomach a You should be more forceful in condemning Nazism lecture from someone who has spent the last 40 years demanding that we applaud while millions of people have their skulls crushed by abortionists.
Even less can I tolerate someone who wants to protect the innocent by tearing down historical statues, but cries about human rights violations when someone vandalizes a building where actual human beings are butchered and sold for parts.I do not pretend that all of the political goals of the pro-abortion left line up completely with the political goals of Nazis in 1940 s Germany.
There are some striking similarities particularly the politicization of public health, the focus on environmental conservation, and the total disregard for free speech but that is not the point.
I say that abortion enthusiasts have the spirit of Nazism because that spirit is, more than anything, one of brutality, moral indifference, and absolute disregard for human life.
It is a spirit that leads to mass exterminations and bloodshed on a scale that can hardly be fathomed.
It is a spirit that compels a people to strive for collective perfection by killing the undesirables.
Nazis exterminated the disabled, just as we do.
And they killed Jews and Poles and Catholics and many other groups.
Our focus is not racial cleansing but economic.
We kill poor children, unwanted children, defective children; children who, we ve decided, will be more trouble than they re worth.
They are a burden on society, we say, echoing Nazi propaganda almost verbatim.And we build facilities which we dedicate to carrying out this cleansing.
The Nazi death camp was never abolished, you see.
It was simply relocated and rebranded.
Today we call it a reproductive health clinic, but what happens inside more closely resembles Auschwitz than it does your pediatrician s office.So, yes, speak out against those ridiculous bigots who ve latched onto Nazism in their desperate quest for purpose and attention.
But if you want to oppose what they stand for, you need to look beyond them and towards that Planned Parenthood clinic you drive by every day on the way to work.
And if those Nazi wannabes in Charlottesville intend to be the ones in our country who best emulate their Nazi role models, it must be said that they are lagging far behind, especially in terms of body counts.
Right now the tally is about 60 million to one, last I checked.They have a lot of catching up to do.This article was originally published at The Blaze.
To see more from Matt Walsh, visit his channel here.READ MORE ALT RIGHT NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire ALT RIGHT FilesSUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @ 21WIRE.TV