Welcome to Trump s America, a.k.a.
Trumplandia.
People are saying it s not going to be that bad, everything will be okay, etc., without realizing just what Trump s rise has already unleashed here.
Now, with his win, haters, bigots and white supremacists are more likely to openly express their hate since Trump has made doing so okay in America.That s sorely evident at Maple Grove Senior High School, where students arrived only to find a classroom door vandalized with epithets and white supremacist messages.
How do we know this is because of Trump?
Take a look:The rest of the door reads, #fuckallporchmonkeys, #whitesonly, #whiteamerica, Trump Train.
As near as we can tell, the very bottom reads, Blacks, in an oval with an X through it.
This is how we know Trump and his win inspired this.You can see that the man who posted the image to Facebook, Fred Ndip, says his son no longer feels safe at school.
Indeed, he may not be, and like many parents whose children will start experiencing this, Ndip doesn t know what to tell him.This is what we re faced with.
Children and teens who already face the sharpest, worst bullying because of who they are and what they look like now get to feel it ten-fold in many places.
How is Ndip s son to convince himself that this is just some graffiti and nobody will actually hurt anyone?It s not just words and harmless fun.
Children learn hate from their parents and their elders.
Children who listened to Trump s hate and watched their parents support it and repeat it just learned that their hatred is perfectly fine.
This kind of thing is likely just the beginning.
Many schools will probably see an uptick in bullying, particularly against anyone who isn t white or Christian.The damage to our children, along to everyone else who will be tossed under the bus when the GOP does its thing, is incalculable.
This is one of those times where many of us are hoping we re wrong, and they won t do what we ve been told they want to do, but we re not holding our breath.And the hate will continue and will grow because we elected one of the most hateful men imaginable to the White House.
He s an example, and he s made it okay to hate.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images