Following Sally Yates testimony yesterday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer on Tuesday accused the former acting Attorney General of being a political opponent of the president because she informed the White House three times that then-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn lied about his contacts with Russia.
Spicer was asked why it took Trump 18 days to fire Flynn after it was revealed by Yates that he had been compromised and was vulnerable to being blackmailed by Russia.Spicer said that Flynn was not fired immediately because of an element of due process after the White House was informed of [Yates] giving us a heads up.
Somebody came over, gave us a heads up, told us there were materials, Spicer said.
Ultimately, the president made a decision that was the right one.
So, I think the process worked.
According to Spicer, Trump defended Flynn after learning that he lied because he is somebody who served our country honorably in uniform for over 30 years.
The president does not want to smear a good man, Spicer continued.
Let s look at how this came down.
Someone who is not exactly a supporter of the president s agenda who a couple of days after this conversation took place refused to uphold a lawful order of the president who was not exactly excited about President Trump by taking office or his agenda.
Just because someone gives you a heads up doesn t mean you jump the gun and go take action, Spicer added.
What if we just dismissed someone because a political opponent of the president had made an utterance, you would argue that it s pretty irrational.
Watch:Spicer also said that Yates was a strong supporter of Clinton, however, he said that without offering proof of such.
It was widely rumored, Spicer said.Watch:lol, reporter asked Spicer why he claimed Yates was strong supporter of Hillary Clinton, Spicer OF COURSE says it was rumored pic.twitter.com/UgWmZ1Rol6 Tommy Christopher (@tommyxtopher) May 9, 2017Spicer called Sally Yates, who has served under Republican and Democratic Presidents, and served in the Justice Department for nearly three decades with an unblemished record, a political opponent.
Let that sink in.In February, Trump referred to Flynn as a wonderful man and blamed the fake media for criminal leaks.
He said that after firing this wonderful man who is now caught up in a massive scandal.
Trump was not only warned by Yates three times but also by his predecessor, former President Barack Obama.Image via screen capture.