Donald Trump is pledging to bring up Bill Clinton s sexual prowess at the second presidential debate.
Now that Trump is in the hot seat over a hot mic leak that shows him gleefully admitting to sexual assault, he does what he knows best deflect.In his half assed apology, Trump took responsibility for his comments, saying that a video from 10 years ago does not reflect the man he is now, but said Bill Clinton has done much worse and that Hillary Clinton was complacent in bullying and intimidating his victims.So that the Trump strategy deflect from his admissions of sexual assault by drumming up sins of Bill Clinton from the 1990s to smear Hillary (because women just love it when the wife is blamed for the husband s misgivings).
There s only one teeny tiny problem with that, though.I don t necessarily agree with his victims.
His victims are terrible.
He is really a victim himself.
But he put himself in that position.That s Donald Trump, in August 1998, calling Bill Clinton the real victim.
In an interview with Fox News Neil Cavuto, the billionaire mogul also trashed Monica Lewinsky, Linda Tripp and Lucianne Goldberg as a really unattractive group and an unattractive cast of characters.
The transcripts are as followed:The whole thing, it s just so unattractive.
Linda Tripp may be one of the most unattractive human beings I ve ever seen not women, human beings.
She s just an unattractive person.
This [Lucianne] Goldberg person, her agent or whatever she is, is just a terrible woman.
You look at Paula Jones, I mean the whole cast of characters.
It s like it s from Hell.
It s a terrible group of peopleBut Trump wasn t finished insulting their personal appearances:The whole group, it s truly an unattractive cast of characters Linda Tripp, Lucianne Goldberg I mean, this woman I watch her on television, just vomiting.
She is so bad.
The whole group Paula Jones, Lewinsky it s just a really unattractive group.
And I m not just talking about physical, but I am also talking about physical.Trump then went on to say that had Lewinsky and Jones been supermodels, they would be more pleasant to watch.
Once again, Trump proves that he does not care about women unless they are visually appealing (which is completely subjective).But now, all of a sudden, he s their unsung hero against abuser Bill Clinton and his enabling wife, Hillary?Gee, what changed?If one thinks Trump truly cares about Jones, Lewinsky, Brodderick, Flowers or any of Clinton s alleged victims, they should keep in mind that Trump only cares about their appearances and their appearances discount them and he thinks Bill is the real victim.Do not be deceived America.
This man will say anything and do anything to get elected.Featured image via Ethan Miller/Getty Images