James Wood, who s fallen so far out of favor as an actor that when you search his name, he doesn t even appear, is a Trump fan.
Like his favorite politician, Wood s favorite method of communication is Twitter, where he has doozies like this:Our gene pool is slowly breeding out abortion lovers by virtue of the very self-limiting evolutionary strategy it is.
#MotherNature #Genius pic.twitter.com/gduEcTRo4b James Woods (@RealJamesWoods) January 1, 2017And this:As if Obama were to have any respect for the Constitution and/or any signatory Conventions.
We re talking about a true Manchurian Candidate https://t.co/PQg2o9BXHw James Woods (@RealJamesWoods) December 31, 2016You get the idea.
It s okay for him to have hate tweets, but Woods is suing because someone was mean to him on Twitter, and to top that off, the defendant is dead.In July of 2015, a Twitter user called James Woods a coke addict.
Most people would just brush that off.
Hell, I ve been called worse and I m not even famous.
But Woods, like Trump, apparently can t brush anything off.
He sued the anonymous Twitter user for $10 million.The defendant s attorney filed a motion that argued that his client was exercising his First Amendment right, just like Woods is when he insults people.
Plus, as a public figure, Woods has to work a lot harder to prove defamation.The defendant soon dropped the appeal, to which Woods tweeted, The slime who libeled me just dropped his appeal contesting my victorious SLAPP motion.
What Woods didn t know at the time was that the appeal was drooped because the defendant died.Woods, though, undeterred, took it a step way too far: Learn this, he said in a tweet that has since been deleted.
Libel me, I ll sue you.
If you die, I ll follow you to the bowels of Hell.
Get it?
Source: Raw StoryTrue to his word, Woods is apparently going to the bowels of hell.
He s still seeking the $10 million.
He found a judge on his side.
On Tuesday, the defendant s attorney was ordered to reveal his client s identity.
This is a significant step forward in our ability to recover the millions in damages caused by John Doe s cowardly tweet, Woods s attorney told The Hollywood Reporter.
It also sends a message to others who believe they can hide behind the anonymity of online social media to falsely accuse public figures of heinous behavior without recourse to themselves.
White s response?
Sometimes in law the bad guys win.
Look for a lot more of this with one of the most sue-happy people ever about to take the presidency.
As for Woods losing money, wouldn t he have to have a career in the first place?Featured image via Michael Buckner/Getty Images