Donald Trump has been an absolute nightmare for the Republican Party establishment.
The last week or so has been especially horrible, from his unbelievably despicable fight with the Khans, the Muslim American parents of a fallen Iraq war hero, to his continuous and deliberate feuds with members of his own party, to his continued flirtations with Russian dictator Vladimir Putin all of it has been one big headache since Trump and his trophy wife rode down that escalator and he announced his bid for the presidency.Well, prominent Republicans all over the place have been coming out of the woodwork to say they won t support or vote for Trump, and some are even saying they will vote for Hillary Clinton in order to put country first and save us all from The Donald.
That number seems to be much higher than those brave folks who are openly denouncing Trump, though.
Politico conducted an anonymous poll of GOP insiders, and a shocking 70% of them are not only as horrified as the rest of us are by Trump, but they actually want him out of the 2016 race and out of the Republican Party.
A couple also went on to express their fears about Trump regarding his effects on the party: I d rather take our chances with nearly anyone else than continue with this certain loser who will likely cost the Senate and much more.
The effect Trump is having on down-ballot races has the potential to be devastating in November.
His negative image among Hispanics, women and independents is something that could be devastating to Republicans.
Trump s divisive rhetoric to the Hispanic community at large has the potential to be devastating for years to come.
While many seem to wish Trump would leave the race, most 58% believe that he will not.
One GOPer from New Hampshire had a rather sarcastic reply regarding that subject: I also wish I could lose 20 pounds, cut 5 shots off my handicap and play the piano.
It s not just the party they should be worried about, though.
It s the safety of the nation.
Trump is dangerously unqualified.
The most patriotic thing they could do would be to do all they can to undermine his candidacy, take one for the team, and try again with someone who is actually qualified in 2020.
If you cannot do that openly, at least, in the privacy of the voting booth, do what you ve done here and vote for the candidate who is actually qualified.
You survived Obama.
You ll survive Hillary, too.
But the real kicker is this: NONE OF US would survive Trump.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images