Georgia Congressman John Lewis is a living legend.
At 76 years old, and as someone who was beaten nearly to death fighting for civil rights, he has the right to say anything he likes.
Therefore, the idea of attacking him, as Donald Trump has been doing all through his Martin Luther King, Jr., weekend, is nothing short of repulsive.Those attacks have led to a massive boycott of Trump s inauguration, especially among Democratic lawmakers.
The latest to announce that he will skip Trump s party is Rep. Keith Ellison, who is also in the running to become the head of the Democratic National Committee.
Ellison says of the decision:I will not celebrate a man who preaches a politics of division and hate.
I won't be attending Donald Trump's inauguration.
Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) January 16, 2017Rep.
Ellison also made it clear that he is on the side of John Lewis, and is just as appalled as all decent people at Trump s attacks on the civil rights icon.
Prior to tweeting his decision regarding Trump s inauguration, Ellison also tweeted:No question I am #StandingwithJohnLewis and the millions of people around the country who have been targeted by @realDonaldTrump.
Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) January 16, 2017The time is always right to do what is right.
And in the face of so much hate, the right thing to do is reject it.
Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) January 16, 2017Medical price-gouger Martin Shkreli is headed to DC for President-elect Trump s inauguration.
Another reason to #StandWithJohnLewis Rep. Keith Ellison (@keithellison) January 16, 2017Rep.
Ellison is clearly ready to battle Donald Trump, along with other Democrats on Capitol Hill.
Trump really crossed the line with his attacks on John Lewis, and he did the biggest favor ever for progressives by showing his true colors.
Some people and events are untouchable, and attacking a living civil rights legend on Martin Luther King, Jr., weekend is at the top of that list.Godspeed, Rep. Ellison.
Thank you for standing up for what is right.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images