Demanding allegiance to a head of state as a condition for becoming a citizen sounds like something a dictator would do.And that s exactly what a Texas judge did during a swearing-in ceremony for immigrants who have been waiting to become citizens of the United States.John Primono is a federal judge who has sworn in over 100,000 new citizens during his career.
But the election of Donald trump has apparently emboldened him to violate all sense of judicial ethics and human decency to warn new citizens that they better accept Trump as their president or else.
I can assure you that whether you voted for him or you did not vote for him, if you are a citizen of the United States, he is your president, Primono told the new citizens as they were forced to listen.
He will be your president, and if you do not like that, you need to go to another country.
Here s the video via KENS.This is a pretty damn disgraceful thing to say to a group of people who clearly want to be Americans, especially from a federal judge.And Primono is paying the price for his partisanship because he was removed from presiding over any future citizenship ceremonies by the U.S. District judges.Of course, conservatives are very pleased and have made Primono their new hero, which alone should force him off the bench because it is clear that he is unable to exercise good judgement and political neutrality.But Primono claimed that he was merely offering a message of unity and that his remarks were taken out of context.
I would never say anything like that, Primono told KENS.
I wasn t trying to say anything for or against Donald Trump.
I was just trying to say something hopeful and unifying, and unfortunately it was taken out of context.
Yeah, that s complete bullshit.
Telling new American citizens to support Trump or else is not unifying.
It s a threatening message designed to scare immigrants into blindly following Trump.Immigrants should not have to deal with such threats in this country, where we have the right to political dissent.
And the way Trump has treated immigrants over the last year and half makes it clear that he doesn t respect them.
He hates them.
So it s understandable that immigrants would be opposed to Trump s presidency.
But they are not alone.
Americans overwhelmingly voted against Donald Trump but he somehow won via the electoral vote.
Millions of Americans are protesting against Trump and his bigotry.On a day when this group of diverse people finally became American citizens, this federal judge marred the ceremony by invoking the name of a divisive hatemonger and literally ordered them to accept Trump as their leader.
It should never have happened but it makes one wonder how many more judges are going to become emboldened to behave similarly once Trump takes over in January.Featured image: Alex Wong/Getty Images