BEIJING (Reuters) - A senior Chinese space official and military officer has been promoted to run the People s Liberation Army s key equipment development department, the military said on Monday, part of a reshuffle ahead of next month s Communist Party congress.
China s armed forces, the world s largest, are ramping up their capabilities with new equipment like aircraft carriers and stealth fighters as the country pursues a more assertive stance in the disputed East and South China Seas and seeks to project power far from home shores.
In a brief story on its website about a military technology exhibition in Beijing, the Defence Ministry named Li Shangfu as the new head of the military s Equipment Development Department.
It gave no other details of his appointment.
According to his official resume, Li was previously director of one of China s main satellite launch sites in Xichang in the southwestern province of Sichuan and has been involved in missions to explore the moon.
The U.S. Defense Department has highlighted China s increasing space capabilities, saying it was pursuing activities aimed at preventing other nations from using space-based assets in a crisis.
China insists it has only peaceful ambitions in space, but has tested anti-satellite missiles.
Li, 59, takes over from Zhang Youxia, who has likely reached retirement age.
Li could be promoted to Zhang s position on the Central Military Commission, which is in overall charge of the People s Liberation Army, when the party holds its once-in-five-years congress in Beijing next month.
However, sources familiar with the matter have told Reuters that the commission may be cut down to Xi and four vice-chairmen, doing away with committee members and streamlining reporting lines.
President Xi Jinping, who is commander-in-chief of China s armed forces, currently chairs the commission, which also comprises two vice-chairmen and eight committee members.
China s military is preparing a sweeping leadership reshuffle, dropping top generals, including two that sources say are under investigation for corruption.
China earlier this month also appointed new commanders for its army and air force.