Donald Trump s running mate, Mike Pence, appeared on Fox News for an interview Sunday morning.
Let s just say it did not go well for him.
Host Chris Wallace hammered him about Trump s assertion that President Obama and Hillary Clinton founded ISIS, backing him into a corner and making him squirm.
Ultimately, Wallace came to the conclusion that Pence is nothing more than Trump s clean up crew.
You and he spent a day defending his remarks, saying that they were serious, Wallace began, playing the video.
Now, Trump says that he was being sarcastic.
So, Governor, which is it?
Well, I think he was being very serious, and he was making a point that needs to be made, that there is no question that the failed policies of President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in the wider Middle East, created a vacuum within Iraq in which ISIS was able to arise, Pence replied.
So then why is he saying he was sarcastic?, Wallace asked insistently.
Well, he was making a very serious point, and look , Pence responded,Wallace was not about to let Pence off the hook and asked again, Forgive me, why did he say he was being sarcastic?
Well, he was making a very serious point.
Donald Trump has a way of talking to get people s attention, and it s drawn attention to a very important issue, Pence replied.
There was a time when any Democrat president knew where the buck stopped in the White House, Pence continued.
And the responsibility for the failed policies in the Middle East that created the environment where ISIS developed belongs to President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and the American people know that.
Governor, those are all perfectly legitimate points to make, but that isn t what Trump said.
He said that Obama and Clinton were the most valuable players of ISIS, that they were the co-founders of ISIS, Wallace said.
Then he said, well, I was just being sarcastic about that, just as he said he was just being sarcastic about inviting Russia to come in and release e-mails of Hillary Clinton s. Isn t the sarcastic excuse getting a bit old?, Wallace asked directly.
Well, no, I don t think it s getting old at all, Chris, Pence stammered.
Donald Trump made his way through a very competitive primary because he spoke not like your typical politician, but just plainly like an everyday American.
And speaking plainly is exactly what the American people will anticipate in the course of this election, but more importantly, they re going to have a president who tells them exactly what s on his mind, and the American people are going to hear and hear him loudly.
Finally, after pinning Pence down and listening to the steady stream of bullshit the VP was feeding him, Wallace said screw it and asked the former Indiana governor the only question left: Are you the cleanup crew?
Watch FOX News host Chris Wallace grill Mike Pence on Donald Trump s claim that President Obama and Hillary Clinton founded ISIS, here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uAokvqEx1-w]Featured image via video screen capture