Now that Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has crossed the Rubicon of racism, the people are starting to lash out, and rightfully so.After disqualifying the Trump University judge because of his race, Republicans and Democrats alike have been holding Trump s feet to the fire some more so than others.
Most Republicans have simply disavowed his comments while some have flat out called him a fraud (and of course Democrats have been saying these things since June of last year).But the most glaring critique from any official came from Democratic Representative Filemon Vela of Texas, who penned a scathing open letter to Trump.
Starting out by agreeing that Mexico should do more to deter cartel violence, Vela quickly amps up his attack, saying, Your ignorant anti-immigrant opinions, your border wall rhetoric, and your recent bigoted attack on an American jurist are just plain despicable.
Pretty standard criticism.
But it gets so much better.
Vela beats Trump at his own purity game, and notes that his ancestry is more American than Trump s, and that his family weren t chicken hawks: Before you dismiss me as just another Mexican, let me point out that my great-great grandfather came to this country in 1857, well before your own grandfather.
His grandchildren (my grandfather and his brothers) all served our country in World War I and World War II.
His great-grandson, my father, served in the U.S. Army and, coincidentally, was one of the first Mexican federal judges ever appointed to the federal bench.
But the most telling and poignant line from Vela s letter was a good, old fashioned smackdown: Mr. Trump, you re a racist and you can take your border wall and shove it up your ass.
This is by far the best response to Trump from any elected official.
You know they all want to say it, but finally someone had the guts to actually come out and do it.And that s exactly what Donald Trump can do.
Even if he were to be elected, there is no feasible way a wall would be built on the Mexican border and be financed by the Mexican government.Vela represents Texas 34th Congressional District, which makes up Corpus Christie and Brownsville.
According to Census data, 60 percent of Corpus Christie s population is of Hispanic or Latino descent.
In Brownsville, a border city, the Hispanic/Latino population accounted for 93 percent of its citizens.The proud people of Hispanic and Latino heritage of Texas 34th district can take solace in knowing they are being represented by a man who speaks for them to the fullest extent.
If only this country had 100 more Filemon Vela s.Featured image a screen capture