There is an attitude among those on the right that if you aren t a straight white male, you come armed with a political agenda that keeps you from doing your job.
Even Anderson Cooper, who is one of the nation s most respected journalists, and who happens to be gay, had his credibility called into question, at least when he s covering stories that happen to be about gay people.That was the accusation by Fox News Howard Kurtz, who said that Cooper couldn t have been fair to Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi, when he asked her about her civil rights record when it comes to LGBT issues.
I respect Anderson Cooper and I think he s generally fair, Kurtz told Fox News contributor Guy Benson.
Do you think he was acting as more than just an aggressive journalist?
He seemed like an activist, Benson agreed.
Of course, I only watch Fox all the time.
But I ve heard that he s very good at his job, he s a versatile journalist [but] in this circumstance, I thought the line of questioning for the attorney general of Florida, under the circumstance and given the context of what had just happened in that state, it was a bizarre non sequitur.
It seemed like he was browbeating her for unrelated political thought crimes in her past, Benson added, which did not relate to the to the task at hand, which is roundly condemning the horrific atrocity that happened.
Here s the video:This was the argument used by Donald Trump, when he said that a Latino American judge just had to be biased against him, simply because the judge was Latino.
Really, this is the argument used against anyone who isn t a penis carrying member of the white race.
Women can t talk about birth control or abortion; we re too biased.
People of color can t talk about issues facing them and gay people can t talk about the time a freak walked into a gay bar and murdered 50 people.
Oh, and g-d forbid people, other than rich, white men, decide to speak for themselves.Fox News and Kurtz, of course, are the poster children for media bias.
The entire network is built around it.
Kurtz once defended Trump against his kicking Univision s Jorge Ramos out of a press conference, saying Ramos seemed like a heckler.
Ramos, though, like Cooper, was just doing his job.
If skin color or sexual orientation means that one must be biased, perhaps it s time to look at the biases of rich, straight white men.Kurtz was fine with Christians covering the attack on a Christian church in South Carolina, though.Featured image via video screen capture