Tomi Lahren, the conservative media pundit, and newly-minted Fox News personality is the reason for blonde jokes.
Lahren previously blasted black NFL athletes who choose to kneel instead of stand during the national anthem in a silent form of protest against racial inequality and police brutality.
We don t like it.
It s a disgrace to us, she shrieked while admitting that she has no idea what they are protesting.
We love our country, Lahren said.
We re just going to shut off the TV, we re not going to go to games.
And they ll pay for it.
Today, Lahren took to her Instagram account to show off her Halloween costume.
Lahren is dressed as a #MAGA superhero with an American flag for a cape and included this caption, Oh LA get ready to find your safe spaces!
What am I?
Well if you re a conservative, I m American AF.
If you re a lib, I m offensive.
Let s go.
Oh LA get ready to find your safe spaces!
What am I?
Well if you re a conservative, I m American AF.
If you re a lib, I m offensive.
Let s go.
#TeamTomi #halloween #MAGA #Merica #makeHalloweenGreatAgainA post shared by Tomi Lahren (@tomilahren) on Oct 28, 2017 at 7:15pm PDTUproxx notes that Ryan Fournier, a frequent Fox News commentator and chair of the Trump Students group, called Lahren s outfit the MOST patriotic costume ever.
Because nothing says patriotic like a red, white and blue fanny pack.And the MOST patriotic costume goes to .@TomiLahren!!
#Halloween2017 #MAGA pic.twitter.com/ddUrfz0Fvq Ryan Fournier (@RyanAFournier) October 29, 2017Nope.
My husband got you beat.
pic.twitter.com/DyGI0GIYrS Samantha Hamlin (@SamHam73) October 29, 2017While Tomi s outfit might have given conservative men a full-fledged freedom boner, comments poured in to remind Lahren that she s violating the U.S. flag code.The flag should never be carried flat or horizontally, but always aloft and free.
The flag should never be used as wearing apparel, bedding, or drapery.
It should never be festooned, drawn back, nor up, in folds, but always allowed to fall free.Tomi was thoroughly mocked on Twitter.Who wore it better?
pic.twitter.com/tkJcDX7ZeW Brandi Sheridan (@J_B_Sher) October 29, 2017For Halloween, Tomi Lahren dressed as a Flag Code Violation.
pic.twitter.com/Ur24U6v2uB Nick Jack Pappas (@Pappiness) October 29, 2017Someone tell them that wearing flags is far worse than taking a knee Carolyn Ellis (@CarolynEllis5) October 29, 2017I wish you could hear the room full of kids at my house laughing at you, Tami.
andy lassner (@andylassner) October 29, 2017Bat ?
crazy and looking like a beer can Janie (@TwinkleBerry83) October 29, 2017Do you know this guy?
pic.twitter.com/r6n4vHryKs Mom (@alpha5150) October 29, 2017 pic.twitter.com/y1ILaQL0nV MRS HIG MA RN ??
(@hig68) October 29, 2017We are not triggered, Tomi, nor do we need a safe place.
Well, maybe it would be nice to have a safe place from conservative stupidity, though.
We get it.
Lahren just wants some attention.
Look at me, look at me!
I m violating the U.S. flag code while disparaging black athletes who do not disrespect the flag.
Photo via screen capture.