Being on food stamps is no fun.
In fact, for most recipients, it is a humiliating position to be in thanks to the public perception that only lazy people who won t work and want to live for free off the government use them.
However, one admitted right-wing voter took food stamp shaming to a whole other level when she accosted a dad at her local Walmart who was paying for his groceries using his SNAP benefits.
When the woman first confronts the man, he is nice to her, and explains: I put in 50 to 60 hour weeks.
I m trying to provide for my family.
The woman responds: You re not providing for it, I am.
The government is.
They take it out of my check.
Bullshit they don t. Finally, the man loses his cool and tells this crazy lady to vote Republican if she has a problem with the government helping those in need.
That s when things really get heated.
The woman shoots back: Oh trust me, I am not a bleeding heart fucking liberal.
Then the two start bickering back and forth while using copious amounts of profanity, all in full view of their own children and who knows how many other people.
Finally, the man tells the woman what he should have said all along: shut the fuck up.
This is what happens when the public is ignorant about who receives SNAP and other benefits and why.
See, it s not lazy folks who refuse to get a job who get these benefits.
83 percent of food stamp recipients are homes with children, the elderly, the disabled, and others who can t work.
Notice I said can t not won t. Further, many of them, like the man in the video work full time jobs or even multiple jobs.Republicans are always talking about small government, but they and their supporters are the ones who are always all up in everyone s business.
Who cares how someone pays for their groceries, just since they are paid for?
Republicans, that s who, because they think they have the right to run everyone else s lives.Watch the insane video below:https://youtu.be/iwrNiRngMhcFeatured image via RJ Sangosti/Getty Images