Conservatives have been floating the ridiculous theory that Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia was murdered.
Somehow, they are unable to comprehend how an obese 79-year-old smoker with a history of heart problems could possibly die after a day of hunting, partying, and gorging on food and their irrational hatred of Barack Obama has instead led them to believe that the President had Scalia murdered.In an email to Addicting Info, one conservative summed up the paranoia quite nicely:Let s look at facts.
Two to three cases before the Supreme Court involved Obama or an Obama agency such as the DOJ.
Scalia was the most conservative Justice on the Court and would have been that fifth vote to say what Obama did was unconstitutional therefore Scalia gone he puts a liberal justice nomination with the hope either the Senate confirms now or Democrats take over the Senate next year (which is expected).Presidents throughout our history have been known to use the CIA to commit assassinations.
In the 1970s the CIA showed Congress a gun that shot a frozen dart inside a person and melted poison causing a heart attack.
With the new technology we have I think they can do better than a 9mm gun.
Comparing to what happen in Russia.
Putin had an ex kgb agent killed in a similar way.
The ex kgb agent was with a group of friends then suddenly felt ill after talking with someone.
It was ruled natural causes.
Then a UK court recently said he was possibly murdered.Here s another problem.
The DOJ is not allowing Texas authorities to investigate.
With the DOJ being a party to a case and yes Texas being a party against them to a case, the DOJ would have incentive to cover it up.So yes the theory is not so far fetched.ThanksFranklin StrumAfter we mocked him a bit, Sturm pointed out that:Presidents have throughout history used the CIA to commit political assassinations.
And the technology that I mentioned is on unclassified record the CIA had in the 1970s, technology is better now.
Even liberals don t trust the CIA.
As for Obama himself he had everything to gain from Scalia s death.
Nothing would stop him from ordering an assassination as nothing stopped Presidents prior.This, of course, is just one of the many, many theories surrounding how and why President Obama had the elderly man killed, but conservatives like Mr. Sturm will undoubtedly be relieved to know that Scalia actually died of natural causes.
USA Today reports that the official cause of death is, indeed, a myocardial infarction also known as a simple heart attack.Texas Judge Cinderela Guevara says she was called by a county sheriff Saturday because the two justices of the peace were out of town: As part of my investigation, one of the things I did ask the sheriff and the U.S.
Marshal: Were there any signs of foul play?
And they said, Absolutely not.
At that time I still wanted to be careful, and asked them if (Scalia s) physician would call me.
The justice s personal doctor called her at 8 p.m. Saturday night.
She said the physician told her that Scalia had a shoulder problem last week and underwent an MRI.
Scalia also suffered several chronic ailments, Guevara said.
I felt comfortable what I knew was going on with him physically, she said.That s right no poison ice darts, no ninja gerbils, no death rays, or any of the other imbecilic ideas conservatives have had since Scalia was found dead in his bed Saturday morning.
A simple heart attack.Conservatives have been defiantly refusing to confirm anyone President Obama nominates but the President has vowed to get a nomination through, no matter what they say.
While this is, alongside being part of their continuing effort to stand in Obama s way on every single issue, an effort to show support for the deceased Justice, conservatives are going against Scalia s wishes in refusing all nominees until they can (they hope) get a Republican in office.Scalia, for all his many, many, many, many faults, completely disagreed with politicizing Supreme Court nominations while he was alive something the Right will ignore in their continuing war on Obama and sanity.Featured image via NY Times