When Donald Trump pulled a terror attack in Sweden out of his ass at a Florida rally over the weekend, he tried to cover his lie by saying he was referencing a documentary about rising crime in Sweden.
That documentary blames Sweden s immigrant and refugee population for the crime, and Fox News Tucker Carlson ran a portion of an interview between filmmaker Ami Horowitz and a couple of Swedish police officers from that documentary.And what Horowitz did with it has these two officers in complete shock.
Horowitz says that Muslim refugees are responsible for a sharp increase in gun violence and rape, which is the basis of his documentary.
One officer says that the interview was about areas with high rates of crime, but there was no focus on migration or immigration: We don t stand behind it.
It shocked us.
He has edited the answers.
We were answering completely different questions in the interview.
This is bad journalism.
Paranoia and racism generally make for bad journalism, but fear-mongering conservatives don t seem to care.
Tucker Carlson should have known better than to air a segment to push the right s anti-immigrant agenda, but he didn t. And Horowitz is trying to defend his investigation despite the horror his own interview subjects have expressed over the editing.
He even claims he told them this would be about migrants and immigrants.But Horowitz also claims that the officers are the ones who used the term no-go zones to describe communities that have large Muslim-immigrant populations.
For the record, no-go zones has been a rumor circulating around conservative media for quite some time they like to claim that these zones are only open to Muslims, and some of them are so strict that any non-Muslim caught there faces punishment under Sharia law, and outside of the country s law.
Local police are said to avoid these areas entirely.It s also a flat-out lie.But Horowitz tried to reclaim some credibility by saying his record stands for itself: I ve never had a subject claim, and certainly not prove, that I ever misled them or ever doctored the footage.
It s never happened before.
So, my record stands for itself, and what you saw on that video clear as day stands for itself.
The big question is, what possible motive would these two officers have to discredit Horowitz and Fox News?
Horowitz says their bosses pressured them to disavow the interviews so they wouldn t be labeled racists.
That s not likely true because, if nothing else, the data shows that despite the spike in migrants in Sweden over the last several years, crime has not similarly risen, let alone skyrocketed.You have a problem when your interview subjects say, That s not what we said, that s not what we meant, that s not even what we were asked about.
Horowitz and Carlson owe the world an apology, but it seems that conservative personalities increasingly believe personal responsibility only applies to other people.Featured image by Mark Wilson via Getty Images