With nothing of substance to go on, conservatives have recently decided that the best way to prove Hillary Clinton is unfit to be President is to concern-troll her health.
On Monday, right-wing garbage pit Zero Hedge published an article that postulates that Hillary Clinton is not healthy enough to be President because of a photograph that began making the rounds on right-wing websites over the weekend.NORTH CHARLESTON, SC FEBRUARY 24: Democratic Presidential candidate, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton slips as she walks up the stairs into the non-profit SC Strong, a 2 year residential facility that helps former felons, substance abusers, and homeless move into self-sufficiency February 24, 2016 in North Charleston.
The South Carolina Democratic Presidential Primary is held on February 27.
(Photo by Mark Makela/Getty Images)This recent rash of attacks on Clinton for the photograph, which shows her being helped up the stairs after she slipped in February, is being presented as something recent and certainly not as a simple stumble on the stairs.
This desperate attempt to malign Clinton has, in the short time since the photo s publication, become so downright insane that Glenn Beck s The Blaze was forced to step in and be the voice of reason:However, despite the photo s date, conservative outlets and blogs ran with the shock photo to showcase the questionable health condition of the former secretary of state in stories dated Sunday, Aug. 7.The Drudge Report even bannered the images on its site Sunday night with links of years when Clinton has supposedly fallen.
Mediaite reported that the other links on the Drudge Report homepage included a YouTube video of Clinton stumbling as she boarded Air Force One in 2011 and a New York Times story about her treatment for a blood clot in 2013.Despite that idiotic speculations about Clinton s health have officially become too insane for The Blaze, the right wing has adopted them whole-hog.
Another rumor the Stupid Part of America is using to support this insane theory spawned from a photograph of Clinton slipping on a stair accuses her of having seizures on camera.
ZeroHedge posted random photos of Clinton coughing over the years, claiming that Hillary has at multiple times had convulsions that appear to be seizures on camera, including a series of seemingly inexplicable coughing fits.
And then there was her on-camera seizure that wasn t a seizure: A frequently referenced video, shown below, alleging that Hillary may have seizure-like conditions emerged several weeks ago and has so far failed to lead to a conclusive explanation whether Hillary may have ongoing health problems and potential residual aftereffects from a blood clot in her brain sustained three years ago.
ZeroHedge published a choppy GIF with no sound and multiple rewinds in an effort to deceive their really, really stupid readers into believing it was actually a seizure.
The actual video shows Clinton was using exaggerated facial expressions to feign surprise when she was asked if she had spoken to Elizabeth Warren about the Vice Presidency.After her exaggerated reaction, which drew laughter from those surrounding her, Clinton suggested that people try the chai, holding up her cup.
Snopes noted last month that: Notably, rumors that Clinton was captured on camera undergoing a seizure didn t start circulating until well over a month later, when they were presented without any evidence beyond uninformed speculation.
But, hey, why not completely misrepresent it to cause conservatives to speculate about her health?
Their other baseless attacks aren t working anyway.
They re even speculating about Clinton s handler, who appeared on stage with Secret Service when a recent rally was interrupted by protesters.
The man told her to keep talking and assured her that the protesters would be handled.Secret Service agents walk on stage during Hillary Clinton rally https://t.co/Btp1na4Pxt ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) August 4, 2016ZeroHedge informs us that the man might be a doctor (completely without evidence) who may or may not carry something that resembles a Diazepam pen for Hillary Clinton s alleged seizures.Since these accusations are baseless at best, they are quite popular with ZeroHedge s readers: Sorry, conservatives, but you have shown no evidence that there is need to question Hillary s health.
Back to the drawing board, I guess.Featured image via Mark Makela/Getty Images (modified)