Despite claiming to look forward to the second day of G-20 meetings, Donald Trump decided to let his daughter take his place instead.That s right.
Trump literally let Ivanka take his place at the G-20 Summit on Friday even though she is NOT in any position to represent America on the world stage.She is not an elected official, nor is she the Secretary of State.
She doesn t even have diplomatic status.
Yet Ivanka took her daddy s place at the round table meeting, sitting beside British Prime Minister Theresa May and Chinese President Xi Jinping.Here s a photo via Twitter.Ivanka Trump, unelected, unqualified, daughter-in-chief, is representing the US at the G20 summit next to May, Xi, Merkel.
Photo @LanaLukash pic.twitter.com/fvs0EMy8z7 Brian Klaas (@brianklaas) July 8, 2017Here s the video via YouTube:The decision to let Ivanka do his job caused national outrage as Americans demanded to know why a failed shoe designer who has zero political and diplomatic experience was tapped to take on such an important role at a major international meeting.how the hell is this acceptable?
Tanya (@DutchDelights13) July 8, 2017Ivanka Trump sitting in at G20 instead of her father is breathtakingly insane.
She designs shoes #G20 Dom Joly (@domjoly) July 8, 2017How is she allowed at the G20?
She s not even allowed at Nordstroms.
George Reinblatt (@georgereinblatt) July 8, 2017The rest of the world leaders must be wondering what the f**k has happened to the#USA Irish ELT (@irishelt) July 8, 2017The embarrassment didn t end there.
A photo of Trump clearly being ignored as other leaders talk to each other while he sits by himself at the table has been widely circulated.agreed pic.twitter.com/BzFBhw7Y7S Phil Jones (@Meercat42) July 8, 2017It s pretty damn clear that the other world leaders want nothing to do with Trump or Ivanka.Trump later praised Ivanka and claimed that she s only getting criticized because she s his daughter.
If she weren t my daughter it would be so much easier for her, Trump said.
It might be the only bad thing she has going if you want to know the truth.
Trump s remarks received a mere golf clap from a few people in the room.Just imagine the reaction from Republicans if President Obama had let his daughter Malia take his place at the G-20 Summit.
They would have been uncontrollably enraged.
They would have called Obama irresponsible.
They would have accused him of nepotism.
They would have called him a dictator.
But Trump lets his daughter take his place and Republicans don t say a word because they are hypocrites.America deserves to be represented by the president at the G-20.
At the very least, a State Department official should have replaced Trump.
Ivanka is only Trump s adviser because he ignored government ethics rules.
She has no experience as a public official.
She certainly has no experience in diplomacy.This only serves as yet another embarrassing Trump moment abroad that makes our country look like even more of a joke on the world stage.Featured Image: Twitter