Whether you realize it or not, the Second Amendment only applies to white people.
While open carrying firearms is dangerous and stupid, Mark Hughes decided to bring his gun to a protest in Dallas something that is legal under current laws in Texas and that made him a convenient target for police when other people began shooting.Almost as soon as bullets started flying, Hughes photo was blasted all over social media (as of now, his photo is still up on the Dallas Police Department s Twitter timeline as a suspect ):As soon as he learned that police were attempting to scapegoat him, Hughes did something we typically don t see from open carriers: he located officers, turned himself and his weapon in, and cleared the situation up (unless, of course, you happen to be looking at DPD s Twitter).
But while he did everything correctly (besides, of course, bringing a gun to a peaceful protest in the first place), Hughes was put through hell at the police department.Officers told their target that they had evidence linking him to the shootings of five police officers.
After he was released from custody, he told CBSDFW: I just got out of an interrogation room for about 30 minutes, where police officers were lying, saying they had video of me shooting a gun, which is a lie, saying that they had witnesses saying I had shot a gun, which is a lie.
At the end of the day the system was trying to get me.
Hughes says that police have not once bothered to apologize to him for dragging his name through the mud and that he has received non-stop death threats since his photo was released with the suspect label.Man wrongly labeled as person of interest in #dallaspoliceshooting "I can't believe it.I can't believe it."
Via KTVT pic.twitter.com/n37cY7h9hk Dr. Seema Yasmin (@DoctorYasmin) July 8, 2016It might seem shocking, even unthinkable that police lied to him in an effort to coerce a confession, but that s perfectly legal.
While it is a crime for you to lie to police, attorney Chris Burney writes in a blog post discussing myths related to criminal law:Cops are allowed to lie about anything.Let s repeat that: The police are allowed to lie to you about anything.The most common example of this is police interrogation.
The cops are allowed to use any deception they like, in order to get a confession.For example, they can tell you your partner s being interrogated upstairs, and just confessed, so you d better come clean if you know what s good for you (when they haven t even arrested your partner yet.)
They can say the victim told them you did it before she died (when she s actually still alive, and never said anything of the sort).The biggest lie (and one that works all the time) is that this conversation is strictly off the record.
Just between you and me.
Nothing you ever say to a police officer is ever off the record.
If it can be used against you, it will.The second-biggest lie (also one that works all the time) is that, if you come clean, the officer will make sure you get treated leniently.
He ll make sure the DA gives you a lighter charge.
He ll put in a word with the judge to make sure you get off with a lighter sentence.
He ll only arrest you for the misdemeanor.
Complete horseshit, of course that cop s going to make sure you go down for whatever it is you just confessed to but it works all the time.
People cut their losses, seeing themselves in a hopeless situation, and grasp at the opportunity to at least minimize the bad.Oh, and if you think innocent people don t do that too, then you ve got another think coming.
Innocent people do confess to crimes they didn t commit, for a variety of reasons.
(That s a subject for a whole nother myth.)
And lying cops is one of the big ones.And the cops are completely within their rights to lie this way.
Unlike prosecutors and judges, who have professional ethics to comply with, the police are allowed to use whatever lawful tools they have in order to solve a crime.
It s not against the law for them to lie.
They re allowed to.And so they will.
They re trained to do it.
They re supposed to do it.
They re gonna do it.In this case, police were hoping to wrap things up quickly with a confession from an innocent man.
Fortunately, it didn t work this time.Featured image via screengrab