Planned Parenthood workers are sick and tired of being harassed by conservative pricks, and they aren t taking it anymore.Damien is an employee at a Planned Parenthood in Oregon and he was asked by the aunt of a teen boy to give her nephew the sex talk because the boy s mother didn t feel comfortable teaching the boy about sex and the his school lacks a sex ed program.And so, Damien gladly took up the task and later wrote about the experience on Tumblr.
Today a 16-year-old boy was brought into the clinic by his aunt to have the talk because his school didn t teach sex ED and his mother wouldn t talk to him about sex.
She spent 40 bucks so he could get tested for the first time.
I spent an hour talking to this young boy about sex.
I got to have the sex talk with him.
I showed him how to properly use a condom and protect himself and his partners.
We talked about STDs and pregnancy prevention.
We even talked about pubic grooming and ways to avoid razor burn.
This poor boy has never had someone talk to him about anything related to the changes his body is going through.
And then we spent 20 minutes talking about consent and how important it is.
Growing up I never, ever had someone talk to me about consent and its importance.
I even had sex ED in school!
This shit is important ya ll.
Of course, it didn t take long for a conservative troll to notice the post and start harassing Damien and trash talking Planned Parenthood.
It is the parents duty to have the talk with their kids, not a government funded organization that murders babies, the troll commented.Damien didn t sit back and allow the right-wing troll to get away with it.
He ruthlessly fired back.
First of all f*cktruck: I am not a government employee.
My wages are not paid by the government.
Second: zero babies have ever been murdered in a planned parenthood.
I didn t say a god damn word about abortion but you had to get your f*cking tighty whiteys in a bunch because an organization that you know nothing about is doing good things for millions of people and you hate it.
Shut your face up about shit you don t understand you f*cking dump truck.
Abortion is murder, just because they re in the womb doesn t change the fact you re killing an innocent human being, the right-wing troll continued to insist.
As I said, it s not a faceless organization s job to provide sex ed while simultaneously killing unborn children.
The right-wing troll has slapped Damien with a glove so he picked up a gauntlet and smacked back on behalf of women everywhere.
Listen up kiddo: Abortion isn t murder.
Murder is illegal.
Abortion is not illegal.
IE abortion is not murder.
As I said (and we ll go with what I said as not total bullshit because it s obvious you have absolutely no real knowledge when it comes to sex or reproduction and i think we can thank your parents for that) this young man had a single mother that didn t feel comfortable talking to him about sex.
So i did it.
I provided medically accurate and up to date information unlike so many parents today.
And by the way, planned parenthood isn t some shadowy faceless organization.
For example, this is my face.
The face i made while reading your stupid ass response.
And then he posted a picture of himself.Image via TumblrAnd that is how Planned Parenthood workers fight back against conservative blowhards.Featured image via Flickr