As Trump prepares to kick off his 2020 campaign so he can avoid doing real work in the White House, a new poll has devastating news for him: If the 2020 election were held tomorrow, a generic, unnamed Democrat would beat him.
That means that more people would vote for pretty much any Democrat in order to keep Trump from being re-elected.The Politico/Morning Consult poll has 43 percent of respondents saying they would probably pick the Democrat even without a name right now.
Only 35 percent said they would vote for Trump.Worse, the number of Trump voters who would vote for him again is slipping.
71 percent of Trump voters said they d vote for him again, compared to 87 percent of Hillary s voters who would vote for the generic Democrat.And perhaps even worse than that is the fact that 26 percent of people who answered this poll believe Trump is the worst president we ve had since WWII.
25 percent hold that same opinion of Obama, but Trump s presidency is all of one month old.
Obama served his eight years and has a legacy for people to look at.It s really not often that people believe history will view a president that badly just thirty days into his first term.For Trump, where his image and ego are everything, the idea that people would rather support a generic someone over him has got to be horrifying.
This is a poll he would probably call fake news, because of the people who line the streets outside Mar a Lago (who are protesters), and all the electoral votes he won, and so on.Add all of this to the fact that he really is planning a campaign event in Florida for this weekend, and has declared himself eligible for candidacy for 2020 already, and what it shows right now is that people believe he can t do the job.
Presidents often enjoy a certain honeymoon period with both the press and the populace following their election.
Trump has been screwing up so badly so quickly that his honeymoon didn t even happen.The only people who still think he s doing a good job are his most ardent supporters.
But those people would support him even if he nuked the U.S. back into the Stone Age.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images