The man who served as White House Counsel to former President Richard Nixon during Watergate (and ended up facing charges for helping to it cover up) is weighing in on Donald Trump s ongoing scandal with Russia.
His opinion?
Trump s administration is in cover-up mode.
John Dean sat down for an interview with MSNBC s Chris Hayes on Monday night and his summation of Trump s current situation was clear when Hayes asked about Trump s shady ties to Russia and his bogus wiretapping claims.
In fact [the White House] is in cover-up mode, Dean replied.On Monday, FBI Director James Comey testified before the House Intelligence Committee and he confirmed that the bureau is indeed investigating Russia s interference in the 2016 election.
He also said that the FBI is investigating the possibility that Trump and his campaign colluded with Russia.In addition, Comey said during the hearing that the Justice Department has absolutely no evidence to support Trump s claim that former President Obama had the phones at Trump Tower tapped.According to Dean, Trump s desperate attempts to distance himself from Comey s testimony is highly suggestive of a cover- up.
There s just never been any question in my mind about that.
I ve been inside a cover-up.
I know how they look and feel.
And every signal they re sending is: We re covering this thing up,' Dean said.
Experienced investigators know this.
They know how people react when they re being pursued, and this White House is not showing their innocence, they re showing how damn guilty they are, is what we re seeing.
During the Watergate scandal, Dean ended up charged with obstruction of justice.
Trump, he said, is well on his way to committing the same crime.
There s also the question of whether this White House will obstruct, essentially, an investigation.
You now have the head of the FBI with a target painted on its back, the front-line investigators with targets painted on their backs; you have a U.S. attorney the president said he was going to retain who has been summarily fired in Preet Bharara, and it strikes me that there is in some ways a kind of obstruction land mine that the entirety of the White House now has to tip-toe through, Dean said.Trump had personally promised Bharara that he would be keeping his job, then last week he changed his mind and fired him without warning.
Bharara just happened to be investigating Trump s Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price (among other things), but of course, this had absolutely nothing to do with Trump suddenly deciding to give him the boot.
(Insert sarcasm here.
)Trump s Russia problem isn t going away anytime soon.
Like with Watergate, it is just a matter of time until the truth comes out and Trump s dirty deeds blow up in his face.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images