Republicans have routinely blamed President Barack Obama whenever something goes wrong, even if it s completely unrelated to him in any way.
Perhaps it s a sign that Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is going to be replacing Obama in the White House, because the GOP is already blaming the dumbest things on her including Melania Trump s disastrous speech on the first night of the Republican National Convention.Melania s speech raised eyebrows last night as people immediately recognized how similar it was to First Lady Michelle Obama s speech from the 2008 Democratic National Convention.
It was clear that a good chunk of the speech had been plagiarized, but don t expect Trump s campaign to take any responsibility for it.
On CNN this morning, Trump campaign advisor Paul Manafort refused to acknowledge the obvious similarities and awkwardly denied any plagiarism.
It was an uncomfortable interview with Chris Cuomo, and Manafort made it even worse by trying to blame it on Clinton.
Manafort told Cuomo, who appeared stunned by what he was hearing, that Melania s speech was original: There s no cribbing of Michelle Obama s speech.
I mean, these were common words and values I mean, she was speaking in front of 35 million people last night, she knew that.
To think that she would be cribbing Michelle Obama s words is crazy.
Cuomo pointed out that the speech didn t just pull a few common words there were word-for-word sentences that were taken from the First Lady s 2008 address.
Here s a few similarities, as a Twitter user pointed out:TwitterThe truth is blatantly obvious, but Manafort continued to refuse to admit that there had been any sort of wrongdoing and tried to place the blame onto Clinton.
He said: This is, once again, an example of what happens when a woman threatens Hillary Clinton.
She seeks to demean her and take her down.
It s not going to work.
You can watch Manafort make a fool of himself below:Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort: Melania Trump s speech used common words and phrases.
https://t.co/lkuwa1KM6O CNN (@CNN) July 19, 2016Manafort isn t the only Trump advisor blaming Clinton for this incident.
Donald Trump senior advisor Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended the Trump campaign and Melania on Fox News America s Newsroom when host Martha MacCallum pointed out that the speech had been lifted.
When MacCallum brought up the fact that many people thought Manafort should be fired for allowing such a thing to happen, Huckabee Sanders said: I think the person who ought to be fired is Hillary Clinton.
She broke the law and that s been completely ignored.
Featured image is a screenshot