Donald Trump has been shouting that the election is rigged against him for weeks.
On Thursday morning, the GOP nominee woke up bright and early to post on Twitter that he has been receiving reports of widespread voter fraud taking place in Texas.A lot of call-ins about vote flipping at the voting booths in Texas.
People are not happy.
BIG lines.
What is going on?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 27, 2016Trump was presumably referring to already debunked reports that the votes of some people trying to vote a straight Republican ticket were being changed to Hillary Clinton, a claim believed to have originated in Tarrant County.
However, Snopes reports that this vote flipping is due to user error, not a rigged election.
Reports are not flooding in from across Texas about vote switching, and most anecdotes are identical with localities changed, Snopes wrote on Wednesday.Texas officials were also quick to call out Trump s tweet for the load of crap that it was.
Frank Phillips, the election administrator for Tarrant County, told WFAA that the claims of vote flipping turned out to be bogus, just like every other time there are reports of this nature.
Historically, he said, these are cases of user error.
Typically, we ve found it s voter error with the equipment, Phillips said.
Sometimes they vote straight party and then click on other candidates or do something with the wheel.
There is not an issue with the equipment.
Election officials have been urging voters to double-check their ballots before turning them in.
Earlier this week, Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott also urged his constituents to make sure their selections are correct before casting their ballots.
Make sure all of your selections are correct before hitting the button to cast a ballot, Abbott posted on his Facebook page.Trump has ramped up his claims of a rigged election as the election has gotten closer and his poll number have gotten lower.
This is not only bullsh*t, it is dangerous and irresponsible.
He is sowing seeds of doubt about the very election process that is the foundation of our democracy, all because he can t admit that he is losing.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images