Ben Carson, who was once one of the more promising Republican presidential candidates before his insanity and outlandish remarks ruined his campaign, is sounding more and more like front-runner Donald Trump as the days go by.In an interview with Andrea Mitchell on MSNBC, the former candidate and loyal Trump supporter complained about the Republican National Committee (RNC) convention rules a predictable move considering how much Trump himself has been whining about them ever since he lost every single Colorado delegate to his rival, Texas Senator Ted Cruz.Mitchell appropriately brought up the discussion, reminding the retired neurosurgeon that the RNC had been rather transparent about their nominating process, and that those rules had been in place for quite a while.
Mitchell pressed Carson: The rules surrounding the delegate selection have been clearly laid out in every state and territory and while each state is different, each process is easy to understand for those willing to learn it.
Take note, Donald Trump is the PS, unspoken.
Let s keep in mind that Trump has no one to blame but himself for not being prepared, and he made it easy for Cruz to win the state.
Yet, Trump s team and his supporters are still crying foul, and Carson has been jumping on every bandwagon ever since Trump bribed him with a job in return for his endorsement and unwavering loyalty.
In trying to criticize the guidelines, Carson made a startling comparison between the GOP s nominating rules and Jim Crow laws.
Implying that the delegate process really was crooked and rigged against Trump, Carson said: During the Jim Crow era, those were the rules too.
They were written everybody knew about them.
Didn t make them right.
And I m not saying this is the same.
But, you know, I think you get the point.
just because rules are there, just because they re written by somebody doesn t mean that they re right.
It doesn t mean you can t review the system.
There s some things we need to look at from a historical perspective.
Why do we need the electoral college anymore?
Stop and ask yourself, why was that put in place and do some same circumstances apply?
Actually, they do not.
We need to look at a lot of different things.
You can watch Carson make this idiotic comment below:For Carson to compare Trump s completely fair Colorado loss to what African-Americans were forced to endure under Jim Crow is absolutely despicable.
And yet, it might as well be expected of Trump and anyone who supports him Carson isn t the only one to make this Jim Crow comparison.
Another one of Trump s die-hard fans, Alex Jones, also attacked the delegate -selection process in a similar manner.
Jones said that Colorado s selection process makes Jim Crow look like a blessing.
Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images