If Donald Trump was watching The Late Show with Stephen Colbert last night he was probably screaming at the television.Because when comedian Louis C.K.
made an appearance on the show he did not hold back when he was asked about the liar in the White House.
Sometimes people lie, That guy lied, they found out he lied.
Then there s somebody who lies because they can t quite stay inside the boundaries of truth, C.K.
began.
Then you have a liar, somebody who it s almost like a problem, they lie a lot.
Then you have a lying sack of sh*t, he continued as the audience became more excited.
That s somebody who just they just lie, they like it, he likes it.
He just goes, Heh heh, that wasn t even true, wasn t even true.
Then I said they were liars.
It s just insane.
It s just gross.
He s just a gross, crook, dirty, rotten, lying sack of sh*t, that s how I feel.
The audience wildly applauded but Colbert alerted C.K.
that there was at least one guy in the crowd who voted for the liar.
Louis, there s a guy who voted for him up there, Colbert said.That s when C.K.
noted that Trump voters were duped.
Trump voters were hurt the most because Trump lied to them and they believed him.
Look if you voted, that s the guy he lied to, C.K.
said.
He didn t lie to me.
He lied to him, he didn t lie to me.
Everybody else was like yeah, no that s not true.
But that guy bought it.
He s the victim of the lying.
Here s the video via Twitter.Tune in tonight to hear #LouisCK explain what kind of liar our President is.
#GROSS #CROOK #DIRTY #ROTTEN #LYINGSACKOF #LSSC pic.twitter.com/mMXbz5ShXA The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) April 5, 2017And Louis C.K.
is absolutely right.
Trump is the king of lies, his biggest of which is that he will make America great again.
His lies about not having any ties to Russia and his lie about President Obama wiretapping him have also been widely covered and debunked.
However, Trump continues to repeat them at every turn.A lot of Trump supporters now realize that they made a huge mistake as Trump s policies directly harm them and their families.
But again, it s hard to pity a group of people who made such a stupid decision when it was crystal clear that Trump was lying.
All they had to do is accept the facts instead of buying Trump s bullshit alternative facts.
If they had done that, Trump would not be in the White House ruining their lives now.Featured Image: Screenshot