Obama hosted a fundraiser for a bunch of wealthy donors on Martha s Vineyard this week while riots and flooding devastate two cities.
No mention of either situation in Obama s speech but Obama had time to take a swipe at Hillary Clinton s opponent in the presidential race.
Obama said he s sick of talking about Trump and went on to praise Clinton great job as secretary of state.
What a joke!
The funniest line of the night from Obama had to be this:Obama said Clinton is not always the flashiest but she is the person who s going to do the work.
Headlining a Democratic fundraiser while vacationing on Martha s Vineyard, President Obama said he is weary of mentioning Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and urged donors to continue backing Hillary Clinton.
Frankly I m tired of talking about her opponent, Obama told 60 donors who had paid $10,000 to attend the fundraiser.
I don t have to make the case against her opponent because every time he talks, he makes the case against his own candidacy, he said, according to a pool press report on his remarks provided by the Wall Street Journal.
Obama also expressed a warning about the unpredictability of this election cycle.
If we are not running scared until the day after the election, we are going to be making a grave mistake, he said.As expected, Obama also had praise for Clinton, who served as his secretary of state after losing to him in the 2008 Democratic primary, saying he s seen her in really tough pressure situations.
I m a Democrat, so it s fair to say that whoever the Democratic nominee was, I would want to get behind them, Obama said, according to the pool report.
But I don t display the kinds of enthusiasm and energy and commitment to Hillary candidacy just because of the fact we belong to the same political party.
He continued: Until you sit at that desk and you re making life and death decisions, and you re deploying young men and women to war, or you re having to avert a crisis that could affect millions or in some cases billions of lives, you don t know how you re going to respond.
Obama said Clinton is not always the flashiest but she is the person who s going to do the work.
Read more: Mass Live