Donald Trump was right about one thing.
The election was rigged and in more ways than one.
From WackyLeaks interfering to hackers to exit polling contradicting election results to voter suppression to FBI director James Comey s bizarre and vague letter he sent to Congress just 11 days before voters cast their ballots.Trump s former presidential campaign manager admitted late Wednesday that the president-elect won the keys to the White House because the FBI renewed its examination of Hillary Clinton s private email server, according to The Hill.
With eleven days to go, something amazing happened, Corey Lewandowski said, The Telegraph reports.
The FBI s director James [Comey] came out on a Friday and he said they may be reopening the investigation into Crooked Hillary s emails, he said.
What that did was remind people that there are two different rules in Washington those of the elites and the privileged, and those for everybody else, he continued.
When Comey moved forward with that investigation it allowed the campaign a little spring in their step, and for them to redouble their efforts, he said.
In those last last eleven days Mr Trump was exceptionally disciplined.
He used a teleprompter he said, without one bit of irony.
Trump blasted others for using a teleprompter then used one himself.
And then, Donald Trump won the election campaign by the largest majority since Ronald Reagan in 1984, Lewandowski added without noting that Hillary Clinton s lead in the popular vote could reach more than 2 million votes.After Comey sent Congress the letter, he took until two days before Election Day to say his bureau would not change its earlier conclusion.
In other words, Comey s assertion that something pertinent might be in Anthony Weiner s emails was a big fat lie.
Comey did that to interfere with our country s election process.
The FBI director was blasted by Democrats and some Republicans as well.
It was a stunningly obvious tactic to put Donald Trump into power.Corey Lewandowski is expected to be offered a key position in the Trump administration.Yes, the election was rigged.
Photo by Drew Angerer via Getty.