Donald Trump is fuming over the size of his little inauguration last weekend.
Not only did his inauguration have embarrassingly low attendance numbers when compared to Barack Obama s previous inaugurations, but it was also completely outnumbered by the Women s March, which was a protest AGAINST him!Trump has tried to make his inauguration look less pathetic by having his team spew lies, despite the fact that photographic evidence clearly shows that almost no one went to see him get sworn in as the 45th President of the United States.
While Trump continues to soothe his monstrous ego on Twitter, his political opponents are having the time of their lives mocking him and what Democratic Senator Jeff Merkley just did was the perfect way to troll someone like Trump.At the confirmation hearing for Rep. Mike Mulvaney (R-SC), Trump s pick for director of the Office of Management and Budget, Merkley forced Mulvaney to humiliate Trump in front of everyone by showing side by side photos of Trump s inauguration and Obama s 2009 inauguration.
To make things even worse, Merkley asked Mulvaney to publicly state which inauguration crowd was bigger.Faced with the evidence and a room full of peers, Mulvaney was forced to admit what Trump and his team wouldn t: that Obama s inauguration crowd was bigger.
Merkley then tied it all together, making sure to state his point in mocking Trump.
He said: The reason I m raising this is because budgets often contain varied deceptions.
You and I talked in my office about the magic asterisk.
This is an example of something where the president s team, on something very simple and straightforward, wants to embrace a fantasy rather than a reality.
You can watch this beautiful moment below:Later, Merkley made sure Mulvaney got the point by calling on him to give actual budgets instead of the alternative facts Trump s team has become well known for.This was absolutely brilliant, and we need more senators calling Trump and his team out for their lies.
They need to be held accountable, and this was a great way to do it.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images