Even though amateur president Donald Trump will likely reach the 100-day mark of his alleged presidency with no notable legislation while his contract with the American voter still sits on his website, White House chief of staff Reince Priebus said on Sunday on NBC s Meet the Press that the former reality show star is fulfilling his campaign promises at breakneck speed.
And then, as if he had never met members of his own party before, Priebus blamed historical unbelievable obstruction from Democratic senators for the hundreds of jobs throughout the federal government the Trump s administration has failed to fill, according to Talking Points Memo:Republicans aren t called the party of no for no reason.In late January of 2009 after former President Barack Obama took office, this happened:The Republicans were pumped because they saw a path out of the political wilderness.
They were convinced that even if Obama kept winning policy battles, they could win the broader messaging war simply by remaining unified and fighting him on everything.
Their conference chairman, a then-obscure Indiana conservative named Mike Pence, underscored the point with a clip from Patton, showing the general rallying his troops for war against their Nazi enemy: We re going to kick the hell out of him all the time!
We re going to go through him like crap through a goose!
From day one, Congressional Republicans made opposing Obama a political strategy.
And now, one of those Republicans, Mike Pence, is vice-president.Here is Trump s breakneck speed at breaking promises:The Muslim ban was not implemented.
Hillary Clinton will not be locked up.
As a candidate, Trump repeatedly promised that he would declare China a currency manipulator immediately after he took office and now he says, They re not currency manipulators.
Trump said he will build a wall on the US-Mexico border, and Mexico will pay for it.
Mexico is not paying for it.
The taxpayers are.
Trump s campaign website stated, (It has since been deleted but the Internet is forever) On day one of the Trump Administration, we will ask Congress to immediately deliver a full repeal of Obamacare.
Trump promised to Drain the Swamp, but instead filled it up with Goldman Sachs alumni.
Trump said he would give the military s top generals 30 days to submit a plan for defeating ISIS and that hasn t happened.And that s just the short list.
To be sure, we re glad those promises, aside from that swamp issue, are unfulfilled.
But facts matter and Reince is lying.Image via screen capture.