As Donald Trump desperately continues trying to convince everyone that he has great leadership skills, President Obama just scored a major ranking by historians.After eight years of dealing with uncooperative Republicans who tried to obstruct him at every turn, and STILL managing to give healthcare to 30 million Americans while improving American prestige around the globe, reducing Iran s stockpile of nuclear material, and relentlessly pursuing equal rights, President Obama has been ranked 12th in leadership among all presidents in history.
George Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Theodore Roosevelt retain their top five status, while Dwight Eisenhower moves into the top five for the first time, according to the press release.
Former President Barack Obama enters the ranks for the first time in the number 12 position.
Notably, his leadership category ratings range from number 3 for Pursued Equal Justice for All, to number 39 for Relations with Congress.
Historian Douglas Brinkley praised Obama s ranking as impressive considering this is the first time he was even eligible to be ranked.This news comes as Trump s approval rating has imploded and currently stands at 38 percent amid chaos and infighting in the White House.
Whereas President Obama governed with a calm mind and steady hand, Trump has tried to govern through bullying and misinformation while being too thin-skinned to handle even the smallest criticism.Foreign nations like Russia and China are taking advantage of Trump, or challenging him and his domestic agenda which has been nothing but a disaster.In fact, Trump is so bad that historians actually ranked George W. Bush higher on the list than he was last year.
George W. Bush, has benefited somewhat from the passing of years: His ranking at number 33, is up three places from our 2009 survey, the press release continued.Indeed, Trump is so bad that many Americans actually miss Bush now.This is a major achievement for President Obama, who has spent his post-presidency living it up while Trump is busy putting out one fire after another and embarrassing himself on a daily basis.
It s more than clear that President Obama was a real leader.
Trump, on the other hand, will probably go down as the most inept and worst president in American history.Now we wait for Trump to throw a hissy fit.Featured image by Pete Souza/White House