John Dean knows something about corruption.
He was the White House Council for Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal.
He was even prosecuted for his part.
That s why we should heed his warnings about Donald Trump, who the former White House Council, accuses of being a liar, and worse.Dean, who s apparently been paying attention to Trump and to Trump s overall ignorance of anything when it comes to matter of state, tweeted on Thursday that Trump is an idiot and a liar.
Okay, that first word is mine, but the meaning is the same: It is deeply troubling when you realize that the president-elect generally does not know what he is talking about, Dean tweeted.
And when he does he lies.
It is deeply troubling when you realize that the president-elect generally does not know what he is talking about and when he does he lies.
John Dean (@JohnWDean) December 29, 2016Dean is far from the first person to note that Trump is a habitual liar.
Even his own lawyers say he s a liar.
In fact, according to a deposition from 1992, Trump s lawyers had to double up during that bankruptcy hearing since Trump can t be trusted.
We tried to do it with Donald always if we could because Donald says certain things and then has a lack of memory, attorney Patrick McGahn said during the deposition in transcripts obtained by BuzzFeed.As McGahn explained, It s always been our practice to make sure that two people are present, and we don t have a problem of people lying.
He added that Trump is an expert at interpreting things.
Let s put it that way.
Source: SalonIn depo for Trump Plaza bankruptcy case, Trump s own lawyer testifies they often met with him in pairs because Trump lies so much.
pic.twitter.com/TdEkdf4ZiB southpaw (@nycsouthpaw) October 6, 2016As Trump gets closer to January 20th, it s becoming more and more apparent that Nixon will be his role model, of sorts.
Actually, all we have to do is go back a few months for a hint at that.
In an interview in the Washington Post with Watergate journalist Bob Woodword, Trump had some misgivings about Nixon, but they weren t about his dishonesty:Nixon failed, I think to a certain extent, because of his personality.
You know?
It was just that personality.
Very severe, very exclusive.
In other words, people couldn t come in.
And people didn t like him.
I mean, people didn t like him.When pressed about the fact that Nixon broke the law, Trump shrugged it off, speculating that it was insecurity.
According to Trump, it was hate that destroyed Nixon, not dishonesty.
Ironically, he sees no lessons in Nixon s legacy.
Trump, along with being a habitual liar, seems to think of himself as someone who s very likable and not at all (swallow your drink before reading this next word) vindictive, and that, according to him, will save him, lies or not.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images.