ABC host Martha Raddatz proved once again why she is one of the best choices to be a Presidential Debate moderator on Sunday, when she grilled Kellyanne Conway about the Republican nominee s immigration plan.After Trump s campaign manager talked about how Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine supposedly don t answer questions correctly because they make it about Trump and are not forthcoming, Raddatz asked Conway to clear up some questions about Trump s plan to deport millions of undocumented immigrants, which she proceeded to answer by not really answering it.
He said that the priority will be criminals and those who have overstayed their visas.
That still amounts to between 5 million and 6.5 million people that he says will be quickly removed.
The cost estimate for that is between $51 billion and $67 billion.
How will he manage such a massive operation and who will pay for it?
Conway replied by putting the onus on ICE officers and once again said Trump will build a wall and force Mexico to pay for it, completely avoiding answering for how Trump intends to pay for such a costly plan.
He ll manage it the way it should have been managed all along, by enforcing the law and relying upon those law enforcement officers and those ICE officers to do their job, Conway said.
They ve been completely hamstrung in their ability to do their job.
He also has said that he will triple the number of ICE agents to try to help.
Conway then did exactly what she whined about Kaine and Clinton supposedly doing by pivoting to talking about how they don t have an immigration plan.Except Hillary Clinton DOES have an immigration plan and you can find it on her website here.Raddatz then steered Conway back to Trump s plan.
Back to immigration, he said there will be no amnesty; all immigrants here illegally will be subject to deportation, Raddatz said.
So will they be subject to deportation and removal?
This is where Conway really began to wither because Republican logic dictates that all undocumented immigrants are criminals, which means all 11 million would have to be deported.
But Conway tried to have it both ways.
If they re criminals, they re going immediately.
And we don t know what that number is.
We hear anything from 1 million to 2 million, Conway replied.
And then, of course, he has also said, this being the most generous country to immigrants in the world, that if you want to come to America and immigrate here legally Raddatz s bullshit detector went off and she once again tried to pin Conway to the wall by asking her point blank that if these immigrants have not committed a crime in the United States will Trump still deport them.
Well, Conway couldn t handle that question either.
He has said that you should stand in line and immigrate legally, Conway said before Raddatz cut her off again.
So you mean they have to go?
Raddatz asked.Conway once again could not handle the question and made a series of gaffes in response.
She once again falsely claimed that Hillary Clinton does not have an immigration plan while Trump has a ten-point plan.
For the record, Hillary s plan is a nine-point plan and it is posted on her campaign website.Conway also said that Trump plans to rescind all those executive amnesties.
So does that mean Trump will rescind any executive order that has ever granted amnesty to immigrants, including those issued by presidents that came before President Obama?
Because that would be very worrying if that s the case as Trump s immigration plan could then affect millions and millions more people.Raddatz finally realized that Conway was not going to be forthcoming in her answers and proceeded to slam her for it.Here s the video via YouTube.This is why Martha Raddatz is considered one of the toughest interviewers in the media.
She took Conway to the cleaners and made her look like the hypocrite and fool that she is.
Donald trump s plan would be costly, not to mention an international incident between Mexico and the United States since you have to wonder how Trump will actually force Mexico to pay for something it has repeatedly refused to pay for.And the fact that Conway is literally lying about Hillary Clinton by claiming that she doesn t have a plan is equally infuriating.
If there s one claim Raddatz should have challenged Conway on it s that one.
Other than that, Conway crashed and burned because Raddatz is a pro, which should be making Trump very nervous since he will have to face her later this year when she moderates a debate.Featured image via screen capture