And Republicans wonder why they are not doing well among Hispanics.On Friday, Hillary Clinton announced US Senator from Virginia Tim Kaine as her vice-presidential running mate.
Kaine, who speaks fluent Spanish, used his language skills during a rally with Clinton on Saturday.And Donald Trump supporter Scottie Nell Hughes had a problem with it.
I appreciate him having multi-cultural and speaking Spanish, I think that s a great idea, she claimed before demonstrating Trump s nativism.
And we can all bring out our languages.
Melania can come out and speak her five different languages as well, but what Mr. Trump did, he spoke in a language that all Americans can understand.
That is English!
Of course, she couldn t resist insulting Hispanics and the Spanish language either.
And that is one good thing that was great I thought.
I didn t have to get a translator for anything that was going on at the RNC this week.
And I m hoping I m not gonna have to start brushing up back on my Dora the Explorer to understand some of the speeches given this week.
Here s the video via YouTube.Trump and Republicans already face serious backlash from Hispanic voters in November since the Republican nominee has been insulting them since the first day of his campaign.
According to Gallup, Trump is viewed unfavorably by 77 percent of Hispanics.As Gallup noted:The major factor most likely contributing to Trump s image deficit among Hispanics is one of the first highly publicized controversies of his presidential campaign in June, when he called for building a giant wall along the Mexican border.
He also characterized Mexicans coming into the U.S. as drug traffickers and rapists.
Since then, Trump s strong and controversial stances against other immigrant groups may have reinforced the ill will among Hispanics, the majority of whom immigrated to this country within the last several generations.Just like the women vote, Trump could end up losing a larger percentage of the Hispanic vote tha MItt Romney did in 2012 and Hillary Clinton could win both groups by larger margins than President Obama did.And conservative hatred of Dora the Explorer is well documented.According to Alternet:Dora the Explorer is an adorable 8-year-old brown girl who travels the world on missions and teaches kids Spanish in each episode.
The cartoon is almost universally loved, and when it emerged it felt revolutionary young girls of color could see themselves being strong and adventurious just as they were forming their perceptions of self.
But when the state of Arizona began its racist crusade against Latinos under the guise of curbing immigration, some extreme right-wingers saw Dora as a good high-profile way to perpetuate their racism without actually targeting anyone real.
In 2010, a fake mug shot of Dora looking beat up and holding the sign Illegal Border Crossing Resisting Arrest appeared on right-wing sites.
Keep in mind, Dora is supposed to be eight!
If there s any question about the vitriol the right harbors toward undocumented immigrants, look no further.In short, this is why Hispanics hate Republicans right now.
Clearly, that Hispanic outreach the GOP promised after their crushing defeat in 2012 never happened.Featured image via screen capture