By now you have all heard that Republican candidate Ted Cruz is absolutely loathed by the people he attended college with including his former roommate.
Craig Mazin, a screenwriter who worked on films like Scary Movie 2 & 3, has an entire Twitter page dedicated to how much he hates Ted; it literally it goes back years.
On Saturday night, Cruz s former roommate stepped up his trolling game and leveled attacks against all of the GOP candidates.Here s a sample of his trolling:Ted is listening to Carson and thinking, What is this road?
It is not a low road.
It is a high road?
DO NOT UNDERSTAND.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016 Uhhh, someone played the same tape in Rubio s head.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016Maybe it s cuz I m from Jersey, but I enjoy Christie s swagger.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016 Okay, Christie TOO MUCH JERSEY declare victory and pull out!
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016I am enjoying President Cruz plan to build a time machine and undo NK s missile plan.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016 Jeb ate his Wheaties this morning.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016The moderators know that Carson is still on the stage, right?
Does Carson know he s still on the stage?
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016 I will deport them by forcing them to listen to my voice.
They will flee that very night.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016Ted responds to Maybe you have no heart with a heartless, calculated chuckle.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016 This is amazing.
Trump is attacking the crowd.
It s almost admirable.
Craig Mazin (@clmazin) February 7, 2016Mazin is my new hero.
He was absolutely hilarious, and he was spot-on so many times.
The New Hampshire debate was filled with so much bullsh*t it was hard to wade through it all.
I literally screamed at my television several times, and at least twice it was Cruz who turned me into a demon.
In one statement, the Iowa Caucus winner told the crowd that he did not believe that waterboarding fit the definition of torture.
Seriously, he doesn t believe that putting a mask on someone and pouring water on their face to simulate drowning is torture.
He doesn t believe that making someone think they are going to die over and over and over again is wrong.
I guess that means he d be totally cool with a foreign government doing it to our citizens then?
The second thing he said that really pissed me off was when he brought up his sister dying of a drug overdose.
Wait, no.
I m sorry his half-sister who died of a drug overdose.
You see, he began his monologue about her horrible death by referring to her as his sister, but then he quickly corrected himself and made sure everyone knew that they had different mothers.
So, he was exploiting her death, but also trying to distance himself from it.
Pretty f*cking despicable.
The rest of the candidates had the same kind of night.
Unlike the other yellfests you could almost feel the desperation of candidates like Ben Carson and Jeb Bush who failed so miserably in Iowa.
No matter how bad it was, though, Craig Mazin definitely provided us with some much-needed comedic relief.
I hope he shows up for the next debate.
Featured image via Twitter/Flickr