You won t believe what passes for offensive these days A BANANA PEEL!
Yes, a banana peel caused a Greek Life retreat to be cancelled at Ole Miss (University of Mississippi) Doesn t this make you wonder how these college kids will handle real life if they re triggered or offended by just about everything they come across?
Wow!HERE S THE LOWDOWN ON THE OFFENDING BANANA PEEL:A Greek Life retreat at the University of Mississippi (Ole Miss) was promptly cancelled this weekend after a banana peel was found hanging in a tree.
To be clear, many members of our community were hurt, frightened, and upset by what occurred at IMPACT, Interim Director of Fraternity and Sorority Life Alexa Lee Arndt remarked in an email between Greek leaders, according to The Daily Mississippian.
Because of the underlying reality many students of color endure on a daily basis, the conversation manifested into a larger conversation about race relations today at the University of Mississippi.
UNABLE TO FIND A TRASH CAN Apparently, student Ryan Swanson admitted to discarding the banana peel in a tree after he was unable to locate a garbage can, and it was later spotted by Alpha Kappa Alpha President Makala McNeil, who leads one of the campuses historically black sororities:She was walking with friends to their group session across camp when one of her sorority sisters pointed at a tree 15 feet away.
She said that about six feet up the tree s trunk sat a lone, fresh-looking banana peel.
It was so strange and surreal to see it there, McNeil said.
We were all just sort of paranoid for a second.
The totally innocent student who placed the banana peel in the tree has issued the standard cringing apology Oy vey!
Talk about making a mountain out of a molehill: Although unintentional, there is no excuse for the pain that was caused to members of our community Meanwhile, Vice Chancellor for Diversity and Community Engagement Katrina Caldwell (pictured above) is talking to people on campus who have some experience working across diversity to help the students process what happened.
No doubt Katrina receives a six-digit salary perhaps this is a way to try and legitimize her HUGE salary.
Our tax dollars subsidize this nauseating and pernicious idiocy.TO READ MORE ON THIS TRIGGERING EVENT: THE DM ONLINE