Donald Trump hires all the best people, at least that s what he promised the nation before he was elected.
More than 100 days in, the best people are nowhere to be found and White House communications are still riddled with embarrassing errors.The New York Daily News did a running tally of all the stupid, easily caught by a fifth grader, written gaffes coming from the White House.
Here are some of the worst:Theresa May, the British Prime Minister, spelled three times as Tersa May, a porn star (White House public schedule, January 27) No dream is too big, no challenge is to great.
Nothing we want for the future is beyond our reach.
(Poster for Trump s inauguration)It gets even worse when BLOTUS gets angry: Thr coverage about me in the @nytimes and the @washingtonpost gas been so false and angry that the times actually apologized (Trump tweet, January 28)On Monday, though, the gaffe factory went overseas, where a press release in Israel wished Israel and Palestine lasting peach.
Press statement @WhiteHouse says 1 goals of @POTUS Israel trip is promote the possibility of lasting peach pic.twitter.com/HE1l2lThg8 Matthew Levitt (@Levitt_Matt) May 22, 2017Yes, the idea of an everlasting gobstopper sort of peach, one that s eternally sweet and juicy and never turns brown, would make this world a more delicious place, it s pretty clear that if the press release had been proofread, it would instead read lasting peace.
In the overall scheme of things, this is fairly minor.
Yes, as trolls will add, then candidate Obama did once say there were 57 states.
In more than eight years, that s about the best conservatives have.The Trump administration, though, is showing a pattern of sloppiness.
No, Trump doesn t have to be a detail person to be a good leader, but someone needs to look after the details.
An intern with an English degree could easily stop these embarrassing and seemingly non-stop string of flubs coming from this new administration.Then again, maybe it s a coded reference to Trump s complexion and maybe his staff was hoping their boss would stay in Israel.Featured image of Trump via Philip Cohen/Flickr | Featured image of peaches via Wikipedia