Donald Trump is set to take office as President of the United States in just 15 days, and one would think he d be making the final appointments to his cabinet and trying to make sure he is prepared to work for the American people on day one.
However, this is Trump we re talking about here, so of course he isn t. What is he doing instead?
Why, he s busy calling Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) a clown.
Well, Schumer is clearly a lot smarter than Trump, and in the wake of the president-elect tweeting insults at him, Schumer decided to hit back in a much classier way.The newly elected Minority Leader was speaking with the press (something Trump has refused to do since July) regarding the GOP s ill-advised and partisan plan to immediately repeal the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare, with nothing to replace it, when he addressed Trump s insults.
Schumer said: I d say to president-elect that this is serious, serious stuff.
People s health is at stake, people s lives are at stake.
Now, we understand that President-elect Trump is in a difficult spot, that Republicans are in a difficult spot.
They want to repeal the ACA, and they have no idea how to replace it.
As for the insults, Schumer continued: Instead of calling names, [the] president-elect should roll up his sleeves and show us a replacement plan that will cover the 20 million Americans who gained coverage, that will cover students or post-college students, 21 to 26, who want to stay on their parents plan, that will show how we cover people with pre-existing conditions.
So I d say to the president-elect and the Republicans that this is not a time for calling names.
It s time for them to step up if they want to repeal, and show us what they replace it with.
Indeed.
The GOP clearly has no plan to replace Obamacare, though they ve had six years to come up with one.
Instead, the incoming president-elect continues to spend his transition time insulting lawmakers, private citizens, and intelligence community instead of doing his damn job.Good luck, Congress.
You ve gotta work with a nutcase now.
Hope you have a mental ward somewhere up there on Capitol Hill.
You ll be needing it with this guy.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein via Getty Images