Here s the truth about the Somali Muslim population in the Twin Cities where these signs are being placed around by a Christian pastor:Minneapolis-St. Paul has what the media refers to as an ISIS problem.
It s no coincidence ISIS is recruiting in the Twin Cities area.
There is a huge population of 30,000 Somali Muslims who live there.A recent Business Insider report states there has been a string of Islamic State-related arrests over roughly the last year due to the large Somali community.
Andrew Lugar, U.S. Attorney for Minnesota, speaking at an FBI news conference stated: To be clear.
We have a terror-recruiting problem in Minnesota Parents and loved ones should know that there is not one master recruiter organizing in the Somali community locally the person radicalizing your son, your brother, your friend, may not be a stranger.
It may be their best friend right here in town.
The deception in the Christian Church is absolutely astounding.
Instead of heeding the words of the Apostle John, who aptly said, every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God: and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world, many have decide to listen to those of the antichrist religion of Islam.
Sadly, many have no only listened to engage them, but they have even gone so far as to support them.
Such is the case of 17 churches in Minnesota.Designated terror group CAIR (Council on American-Islamic Relations) has supported Christian churches putting up Blessed Ramadan signs to promote an alleged unity between Christianity and Islam.Apparently, about 1800 signs were distributed in the Twin Cities and Duluth in order to help Muslims feel more welcome in the community, according to a Fox 21 reporter.I have been in St. Paul and Minneapolis.
I have seen the Muslim neighborhoods and have heard from some of the people that live in the area around them that there is nothing but death and destruction that surrounds these people.
Yet, they are supposed to be made to feel more welcome in the community by Christian churches that promote the holidays of a false prophet and antichrist?
I just don t understand that.According to the report, the Blessed Ramadan signs are supposed to show support to Muslims who have recently been targeted after negativity stemming from the Orlando shooting.Rector Bill van Oss of St. Paul s Church says that the signs were put out with the goal to find the common ground that we have as believers in god to work toward a country and a world of justice and peace for all people.
Watch here:Well, doesn t that sounds all euphoric and filled with happy unicorns?
The fact of the matter is that Christians and Muslims are diametrically opposed to the person, work and nature of the Creator.
Christians see that God has revealed Himself as one God, yet in three distinct persons, the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
The Muslim only see God as both one person and one god.
Therefore, while they will acknowledge Jesus Christ as a prophet, they will neither heed His words nor acknowledge his virgin birth and divinity.So, No Mr. Bill, these signs are not what you claim they are.
They are capitulation on your part and the part of your professed Christian neighbors and parishioners to not feel uncomfortable with confronting Muslims with the false antichrist teachings of Muhammad and the Koran and calling them to repentance to the Law of God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Via: Freedom Outpost