Donald Trump has made quite the fuss about tapes of conversations between himself and former FBI Director James Comey.
Problem is, no one is even convinced that these tapes exist.
According to biographer Tim O Brien, this wouldn t be the first time Trump has lied about taping people when he didn t as a method of intimidation.O Brien authored the book, TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald.
But Trump subsequently lost his sh*t and filed a lawsuit in 2005 because O Brien s book said he was only worth a measly $250 million.
Suing ended up being a big mistake, as Trump ended up busted for making at least 30 false statements during a deposition.
His loose association with the truth becomes problematic when he s confronted with documents, O Brien told CNN host Brian Stelter during an interview on Sunday morning.
We ve had decades now of Trump frequently lying or exaggerating about a wide range of things.
The author also let it be known that Trump has a long history of lying to people about tapes of conversations just so he can try to intimidate them into doing what he wants.
He s said this over the years to reporters when they go into the Trump organization, I just want to let you know that I m taping you right now, O Brien said.
And he said it multiple times during my interviews with him.
He said that into my own tape recorder when I recorded our interviews.
But when he sat down for the deposition, my attorney said, Mr. Trump, do you have a taping system?
he added.
And he said no.
And [my attorney] said, Why did you say this to Mr. O Brien.
And he essentially said, I wanted to intimidate him.
O Brien s comments make it even more doubtful that Trump actually as any tapes of Comey at all.
Which is actually quite disappointing since they would almost certainly show that Comey was telling the truth when he testified under oath that Trump had tried to get him to drop the Russia investigation and pledge loyalty, which is clearly obstruction of justice.
What a pity.
If there really were tapes we would be that much closer towards getting this moron out of the White House.You can watch O Brian s interview here:Featured image via video screen capture