Recently, Donald Trump became the second major elected leader in history to publish a newsletter focusing on crimes committed by a segment of the population he wanted to demonize Adolf Hitler with The Criminal Jew (a regularly published list of crimes allegedly committed by Jews) and Donald Trump with his Weekly and Declined Detainer Outcome Report, a regular publication of crimes allegedly committed by immigrants.
The word allegedly is important here, because Trump s list so far has been mostly Latinos who are accused but have not been convicted of anything at all.Trump decided that a newsletter attacking all immigrants because some allegedly have committed crimes (at a much lower rate than the rest of us), so he established VOICE an entire department committed to criminalizing the Jews immigrants.
While Trump set up a hotline for VOICE in an effort to give people an outlet for engaging this bigoted right-wing fantasy that immigrants are all criminals, he was in for a shock when people started calling.
They called 1-855-48-VOICE about aliens, all right just not the ones he wanted them to call about.Trumps VOICE Hotline set up for people to report on crime from illegal aliens was reportedly overloaded with calls about space aliens Robbie Gramer (@RobbieGramer) April 26, 2017Trump wants you to report "bad aliens", so join me in complaining about the Hutt criminal organization in the Outer Rim: 1-855-48-VOICE.
It's Phil with a Z (@PhilMQuinn) April 27, 2017Holy shit yes.
Everybody call 1-855-48-voice and jam their shit with callAbout aliens and your vote for The Voice https://t.co/octtSP9heg wattznext (@wattznext) April 27, 2017To call Trump's new VOICE hotline for hot tips about illegal aliens, except to report any *space* aliens you find worrisome.
Call often!
https://t.co/Quw1XKU2Pc Janie Jones (@janieqjones) April 27, 2017In case you've spotted any aliens, the number is 1-855-48-VOICE https://t.co/HLR987Sk3n #ShePersisted (@magicclams) April 27, 2017Well who would have figured this would happen?
855-48-VOICE is the number to call, you know, in case space aliens are flying about.
https://t.co/JshLCJlB5i Ziggy Zee Persisted (@francie1950) April 27, 2017If any of you need to report space aliens to our government, please call their hotline: 1-855-48-VOICE.
Here are some of their Most Wanted: pic.twitter.com/nWnVYdDdpG Steven Santos (@stevensantos) April 27, 2017So, if you have been abducted by aliens, the new toll free hotline is: 1-855-48-VOICE https://t.co/vfMe4MsepP Jmcnairc (@johnmclarke3) April 27, 2017 All crime is terrible, but these victims as represented here are unique and too often ignored, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly said of the alien crime line.
They are casualties of crimes that should never have taken place because the people who victimized them often times should never have been in the country.
If you have seen any strange alien activity especially criminal you should call.
Whether you or a friend were abducted or probed, have seen crop circle-based vandalism, or witnessed livestock being turned inside out, it is your duty as a patriotic American to speak out.The number once again is 1-855-48-VOICE.
Featured image via Getty Images (Mark Wilson)/screengrab