Enough is enough.
Americans need to start making business owners and their employees pay up for discriminating against them simply because they dare to show their support for our President.
Good for this Trump supporter for fighting back against the intolerant left.
A lot of Americans would be happy to contribute to his legal defense Bartenders at a West Village hot spot served up discrimination with a liberal twist refusing to serve a customer because he was wearing a Make America Great Again hat, according to a lawsuit.Greg Piatek, 30, an accountant from Philadelphia, claims he was snubbed and eventually 86 d by workers at The Happiest Hour on West 10th Street over his conservative fashion statement, popularized by Donald Trump on the campaign trail, he told The Post.
Anyone who supports Trump or believes what you believe is not welcome here!
And you need to leave right now because we won t serve you!
Piatek claims he was told as he was shown the door by a manager.The shake-up started when Piatek and two pals, after a visit to the 9/11 Memorial, ordered drinks at the posh tavern around 6:30 p.m. on Jan. 28.A female bartender served Piatek a $15 jalape o margarita and his pals beers.
But when he tried to order a second round, a male bartender noticed his hat and skipped them, he said.One of Piatek s pals pointed out it was their turn to be served, but the bartender scoffed.
Is that hat a joke?
the Manhattan Supreme Court suit claims.
Ignoring me because I m wearing the hat is ridiculous, Piatek said.
It s really sad.
The flustered bartender got them a second round but allegedly slammed the drinks down.
A third bartender also asked Piatek if his lid was a joke and shouted, I can t believe you would support someone so terrible and you must be as terrible a person!
Piatek claimed.
I wasn t even trying to order a drink and she said, Don t even try to order from me.
I won t get you a drink, Piatek alleged.A manager said he spoke to the bar owner, and was told, Anyone who supports Trump or believes what you believe is not welcome here.
And you need to leave right now because we won t serve you!
according to the suit.
For entire story: New York Post New York Post reporter Dean Balsamini had a similar experience when he wore a Trump hat around NYC.
He recounts his day of scorn and discrimination after donning a Make America Great Again hat as he visited a few hot spots in the city: I may as well have been wearing a Red Sox hat at Yankee Stadium.The mere sight of my cap nearly caused a riot at the historic Stonewall Inn on Christopher Street site of the 1969 riots that launched the gay rights movement.
You come into a gay bar THIS gay bar with THAT hat!
one woman lectured as a large crowd gathered.At Soho s sceney La Esquina, where celebs like Julia Roberts nosh on $26 enchiladas, servers nearly lost their lunch when I showed up.
Oh my God, do you see that?
Is he serious?
Is he kidding me?
one waiter gasped.My companion and I were quickly shunted to an out of sight table near a back wall.
Don t talk to him!
a man instructed a street vendor as I browsed along 125th street near the Apollo Theater.Hipsters and trustafarians along Bedford Avenue in Williamsburg either did a double take, shot me a death stare or a snarky remark.
Take off that stupid f ing hat!
one skinny-jeans-wearer sneered.At high-end chapeau peddler Goorin Bros., I overheard a salesman tell his colleague, I m losing my sh !
as I walked in.
When I asked him to hold my hat while I admired a fedora, he grimaced.
I m surprised nobody s knocked that hat off your head!
a mother of two scolded me as we crossed paths along Central Park West and 63rd Street.
Make America Great Again right!