The CNN journalist who posted the video of President Trump helping polio survivor Mitch McConnell up the stairs, following their remarks to the press, will likely backfire, as most Americans will notice the gentle way that President Trump discreetly held Mitch McConnell s arm, as he helped him to navigate the stairs.
For most Americans, this video will solidify what they already believe about him, that he is a generous and kind man and not the monster the media would like their followers to believe that he is.
CNN political reporter Daniella Diaz sent a tweet on Monday pointing out that President Trump and Sen. Mitch McConnell locked hands while walking up stairs at the White House following their Rose Garden press conference.
Diaz seemed to be mocking the Republican duo but while followers quickly pointed out that the Kentucky senator is a polio survivor, the tweet remains on her feed nearly 24 hours later.
That hand-lock between Trump and McConnell, though, Diaz wrote with video of the incident.That hand-lock between Trump and McConnell, though.
https://t.co/xFClDYCmdQ Daniella Diaz (@DaniellaMicaela) October 16, 2017A CNN colleague called out Diaz, quoting her tweet and explaining the situation.
At the time this article was published, Diaz had not deleted the tweet.
Daily Beast Senior Editor Andrew Kirell also asked what was going on in a since-deleted response.
McConnell is a polio survivor, a reason why stairs can be tricky at times, CNN s Senior Congressional Correspondent Manu Raju wrote.
McConnell often goes up a step at a time, sometimes needs railing for assistance.
This time, used Trump for balance.
love it!
Mocking a guy with Polio is such a hallmark of great journalism.
@CNN must be extremely proud of your stellar reporting pic.twitter.com/CWEr6OjDXs Matthew Levine (@Matty74f) October 16, 2017Actor James Woods DESTROYED CNN journalist Daniella Diaz in a reply to her tweet:McConnell is a polio survivor, you misinformed, arrogant, obnoxious, vile, biased asshole.
@CNNFakeNews https://t.co/TGvhr9rfDF James Woods (@RealJamesWoods) October 17, 2017Several more Twitter users commented on Diaz s tweet, saying it needs to be removed and criticizing the CNN reporter for the message.My mother has polio.
I've done the same thing for her most of my life.
It's called compassion.
Perhaps do some research before tweeting.
Scott Fitzgerald (@PhitzyCent) October 17, 2017You are probably too young to realize that people used to get polio in this country.
Childhood polio isn't funny.
Hattie Kauffman (@Hatsfree) October 16, 2017 You re making fun of the President of the United States helping a polio survivor that stumbled.
Stay classy CNN, stay classy, one user responded.Making fun of the President for helping a polio survivor that stumbled.
Stay classy CNN, stay classy The_Kondor (@RadTekes91) October 17, 2017This Twitter user suggested that the CNN journalist should learn how to do research before mocking a polio survivor.Don t journalists do research?
She must of missed that in her first journalism class.
Top notch reporter there!
Only Upside (@donovan3333) October 17, 2017Back in 1990, McConnell explained his medical situation in a campaign ad when running for re-election in Kentucky.
When I was a child and my dad was in World War II, I got polio.
I recovered, but my family almost went broke, McConnell explained.Before the polio vaccine was introduced in 1955, tens of thousands of American children developed paralytic polio every year, according to WebMD.
Post-polio syndrome affects some people who had the condition, and symptoms include extreme fatigue, joint pain and progressive weakness in muscles.
So very cheap and sleazy journalism if it even could be called journalism just a hate post, one user wrote, while another said, He had polio.
Read a bio first if you re going to report on people.
It s been known since he went to Congress.
FOX News