The mayor of Charlottesville, Virginia confirmed that one person died after a Trump supporting Nazi used his car to deliberately plow into a group of peaceful anti-racist protesters on Saturday.
I am heartbroken that a life has been lost here.
I urge all people of good will go home, Mayor Mike Signer tweeted.I am heartbroken that a life has been lost here.
I urge all people of good will go home.
Mike Signer (@MikeSigner) August 12, 2017 Conservatives have advocated for running over protesters for quite a while now.
We ve all seen the memes circulating on social media.Hard right has been openly fantasizing about running over protesters for some time now, and elected Republicans have deliberately stoked it.
pic.twitter.com/BC1CjJ5Onu Carl Beijer (@CarlBeijer) August 12, 2017Spend any amount of time on right-wing sites and you'll see these memes *everywhere*.
pic.twitter.com/kmAe11SuZD Carl Beijer (@CarlBeijer) August 12, 2017Mission accomplished because a life was taken today by a Trump supporting fascist.Video footage quickly circulated on the Internet showing the car plowing through a group of protesters after police broke up clashes between white nationalist demonstrators and counter-protesters.Watch:pic.twitter.com/dOU9iKCEOa Protest SPb (@ProtestSPb) August 12, 2017In response, before the death was reported, Donald Trump offered a weak statement on Twitter.
We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for.
There is no place for this kind of violence in America.
Lets come together as one!
Trump tweeted about his own supporters violent protest.We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for.
There is no place for this kind of violence in America.
Lets come together as one!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 12, 2017Trump went on to write, Charlottesville sad!
Am in Bedminster for meetings & press conference on V.A.
& all that we have done, and are doing, to make it better-but Charlottesville sad!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 12, 2017Washington Post reporter Joe Heim wrote before the death was announced, Virginia State Police spokesperson say injuries in crash range from life threatening to minor.
Did not say how many injuries.
Virginia State Police spokesperson say injuries in crash range from life threatening to minor.
Did not say how many injuries.
1/ Joe Heim (@JoeHeim) August 12, 20171 dead, 19 injured from the car collision.
https://t.co/9zwe2x4500 Joe Heim (@JoeHeim) August 12, 2017Virginia Gov.
Terry McAuliffe declared a state of emergency shortly after violence erupted in Charlottesville with Trump-loving Nazis besieging the city while carrying torches.
The Governor added, I am disgusted by the hatred, bigotry and violence these protesters have brought to our state over the past 24 hours.
The Alt-Right racists poured into the city to protest the removal of Confederate Robert E. Lee s statue and in doing that, they left blood from innocent people in the streets.
This is straight up terrorism.
The whole world is watching as Trump supporters violently besiege a college town.Image via screen capture.