A tired 70-year-old man keeps forgetting to show up at his new job and instead, he has repeatedly gone golfing.
The irony is that this same man routinely mocked the man who previously held his job for golfing.
This man s job title: Commander-in-Chief.
We suspect that former reality show star Donald Trump didn t realize that being the alleged leader of the free world would be a difficult job.
Trump is up to his eyeballs in scandals and instead of addressing them, he s either tweeting or on the golf course, or both.Again, the Twitter-addicted amateur president is playing golf at a Trump-owned golf course, raising more concerns over his mounting conflicts of interest.The White House press pool reports that Trump is meeting with budget director Mick Mulvaney and Senator Rand Paul.
Last time Trump went golfing, he claimed to be in meetings, however, that doesn t appear to be true.Trump returned to the same golf club in Virginia.Last year, during a campaign rally, Trump referred to his golf courses when criticizing former President Barack Obama.The Independent reports:The President has visited his own-branded properties approximately once every three days during the course of his presidency so far, according to The Washington Post.
You know what and I love golf but if I were in the White House, I don t think I d ever see Turnberry again, Trump declared.
I don t think I d ever see Doral again, I own Doral in Miami, I don t think I d ever see many of the places that I have.
I don t ever think that I d see anything, I just wanna stay in the White House and work my ass off, make great deals, right?
Who s gonna leave?
I mean, who s gonna leave?
he said.At a 2016 rally in Virginia, Trump said, I m going to be working for you, I m not going to have time to go play golf.
Per WH: @POTUS golfing with @RandPaul and OMB Dir Mulvaney at Trump Natl in Virginia with health care to be discussed Margaret Talev (@margarettalev) April 2, 2017This is Trump s 14th golf outing in just 10 weeks.
We get it, Donald.
You re tired and what better place to take a break than the Sunshine state?
After all, he s been on the job for two whole months.Photo by Ian MacNicol/Getty Images.