This woman is insane.In an incredibly disrespectful rant against President Obama and anyone else who supports investigating Russian interference in our election, Fox News host Jeanine Pirro said that anybody who is against Donald Trump is anti-American.
Look, it s time to take sides, she began.
The election is over.
You re either with us or against us.
That is, with the United States or against the United States.
As you may recall, President Bush and conservatives used this same phrase often to question the patriotism of Americans who opposed war in Iraq.
We have a new president-elect.
His name is Donald J. Trump.
So move over Barack, Pirro continued, going on to refer to Hillary Clinton and other Democrats as namby pamby pathetic losers.
Pirro then made a bullshit claim.
There was a time in this country when we were united behind the flag in celebration of America s new president, our new leader.
We all did in 2008 when Barack Obama was elected.
We had high hopes for a united country, irrespective of our politics.
It s time for the left, assuming they re capable, to show the same dignity and class, to the 45th president-elect.
When President Obama took office in 2008, Republicans vowed to make him and America fail.
They obstructed at every turn, called him every name in the book, and disrespected him.
They even declared their love and allegiance to foreign leaders like Putin and Benjamin Netanyahu.
So Pirro is a damned liar for daring to claim that Republicans united behind President Obama because they absolutely did not.
Republican leaders had a meeting before he was even in office and agreed to block him at every turn and make him a one term president.
Then Pirro suggested that investigating Russia for interfering with our election is also un-American.
You know, because America somehow has a long tradition of letting Russia rig the election for the presidential candidate they prefer.
This isn t about the election, is it Mr. President?
she asked.
This is about domestic politics.
It s not about November 2016, it s about January 2017 and your attempt to prevent Donald Trump from the smooth transition of power and your inability to face the overwhelming Electoral College win that the American people gave him.
Except Trump s supposed victory was not even close to being overwhelming.
He lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes and his Electoral College margin is one of the smallest in the last 100 years.
Even President Obama s victories in 2008 and 2012 were bigger.
So in anyone had a mandate to lead, it was Obama.
And Republicans worked to sabotage him.Pirro demanded to know why everyone is so obsessed with Russia and claimed that she would rather sympathize with Putin because he s supposedly a Christian.
Yeah, a Christian who murders political opponents and denies his people basic human rights.
I despise all dictators, she claimed, but between the dictator that thinks I m an infidel and wants to have our heads cut off and the dictator from whom I simply want to keep my distance the choice is a no-brainer.
Here s the video via YouTube:In other words, like other crazy Republicans, Pirro loves Putin and has no problem with Russia rigging our election as long as they rig it in favor of the conservative candidate.
That s a dangerous path that could lead to Republicans seeking help from foreign powers to help them win elections in the future.
And the only way we can stop it is to investigate and if Russia did help Trump win, he should be disqualified immediately and we should either hold a new election or install Hillary Clinton as the rightful winner.Featured image via screenshot