Donald Trump has caused plenty of heartache for Americans, especially those of Muslim and Mexican descent, as a result of his racist and vile rhetoric.
He s left the world wondering how he s the GOP fronerunner for the nomination to run in the general election for president of the United States.
Fortunately for Americans and the rest of the world, we are slowly but surely watching the unhinging of Donald Trump.
His recent remarks about women are just one in a series of Trump crazy talk sessions that have left his campaign losing serious momentum.
However, Trump has a way with words and he always blames someone else for his misfortunes.
This time, it came in the form of a temper tantrum with a reporter.Here s the video: [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T8ctyqB5TTM] MSNBC s Chris Jansing asked Trump if there would be any changes in his campaign staff in what was most likely a reference to a New York magazine article that reported infighting among his staff members.
No, It s just the media again.
I get the most unfair media.
This is the first time I ve been asked this question.
Nobody has called me about this.
We are number one in every category, said Trump.Jansing then asked if Trump was concerned that his staff didn t know that Wisconsin conservative radio host Charlie Sykes was against his candidacy, which set him up for a brutal interview last week.
Believing that he won the debate with Sykes, Trump said, You go into the enemy camp sometimes.
He is not a very smart guy, not a very bright guy.
Sometimes you go into unfriendly territory.
That s part of the game.
Here is the transcript from the rest of the interview:Jansing: Is Wisconsin unfriendly territory?
Trump: No, you said about a radio talk show host.
Jansing: So you re just talking about the radio host?
Trump: That s what I mean about the dishonest media.
Jansing: I m asking you a question, allowing you to answer it.
Trump: Excuse me, Excuse me, excuse me!
You re asking me about a show host and I said he was unfriendly territory.
Then you say is that Wisconsin.
It s so dishonest.
No, no, that s called you know what s that s called, dishonest media, dishonest reporting.
I think I m going to do great.
Watching Trump get frustrated is reminiscent of how he s been frustrating most of America the last few months.
Featured image via screencapture