This very important scandal is unfolding before us.
It has many, many legs with different Obama administration officials involved.
Don t count on the main stream media to fill you in.
This is a big deal!Andrew McCarthy said it best: The national-security adviser is not an investigator.
She is a White House staffer.
The president s staff is a consumer of intelligence, not a generator or collector of it.
If Susan Rice was unmasking Americans, it was not to fulfill an intelligence need based on American interests; it was to fulfill a political desire based on Democratic-party interests.
Circa News has been uncovering disturbing information regarding the unmasking of American citizens and how Obama provided a way for the unmasking to go unfettered .
Susan Rice and Samantha Power both have unfettered access to classified material and likely unmasked many in government.
Sara Carter reports below on H.R.
McMaster s involvement in this unmasking:Almost one month after it was disclosed that former President Obama s National Security Adviser Susan Rice was unmasking members of President Trump s team and other Americans, Trump s own national security adviser, H.R.
McMaster, sent an official letter giving her unfettered and continuing access to classified information and waiving her need-to-know requirement on anything she viewed or received during her tenure, Circa has confirmed.The undated and unclassified letter from McMaster was sent in the mail to Rice s home during the last week of April.
Trump was not aware of the letter or McMaster s decision, according to two Senior West Wing officials and an intelligence official, who spoke to Circa on condition that they not be named.
This is the letter from McMaster to Rice.
Names, phone numbers and personal addresses have been blurred.
I hereby waive the requirement that you must have a need-to-know to access any classified information contained in items you originated, reviewed, signed or received while serving, as National Security Adviser, the letter said.
The letter also states that the NSC will continue to work with you to ensure the appropriate security clearance documentation remains on file to allow you access to classified information.
Circa revealed in March that during President Obama s tenure, top aides including Rice, former CIA Director John Brennan and former Attorney General Loretta Lynch routinely reviewed intelligence reports received from the National Security Agency s incidental intercepts of Americans abroad.
They were doing so by taking advantage of rules Obama relaxed starting in 2011 to help the government better fight terrorism, espionage by foreign enemies and hacking threats, according to documents obtained by Circa.In June, the House Intelligence Committee subpoenaed Rice as part of the committee s larger investigation into the unmasking of Americans under the Obama administration.
Rice maintains that she never accessed the information inappropriately and has agreed to testify before the committee.Under the law, and under certain conditions, it is common practice for some senior government officials to be given the unfettered access to classified information, and their need to know is waived under Executive Order 13526 Section 4.4 Access by Historical Researchers and Certain Former Government Personnel.
But the White House officials told Circa that under the current congressional investigation, and given President Trump s ongoing concern that members of his team were unmasked, Rice s clearance should have been limited to congressional testimony only or revoked until the end of the investigation.
Rice and Brennan have confirmed they sought the unredacted names of Americans in NSA-sourced intelligence reports, but insisted their requests were routine parts of their work and that they did nothing improper.
Former U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power also has legal authority to unmask officials.In a June tweet, Trump called the revelation that Rice and other Obama senior officials were unmasking members of his team the big story the unmasking and surveillance that took place during the Obama administration.
Basically, this letter which was signed in the last week of April undercuts the president s assertion that Susan Rice s unmasking activity was inappropriate.
In essence, anybody who committed a violation as she did would not be given access to classified information, said a senior West Wing official, who was shown the document by Circa and verified its authenticity.
In fact, they would have their security clearance and right to need-to-know stripped.
The point is, is that it lowers the bar for her, the Senior West Wing official said.
This memo McMaster sent to Rice makes it so that she doesn t have to prove a continuing need-to-know to have access to classified information and in effect is a White House pardon of Susan Rice and could be used by other Obama officials who conducted targeted unmasking of the campaign as a defense, the official added.REMEMBER THAT RICE RECENTLY LIED AGAIN ABOUT THE UNMASKING SHE DID IT ON NATIONAL TV:If the Obama administration was good at anything, it was good at lying to hijack the narrative.Remember when Susan Rice lied after Benghazi?
It is what she does so well.
Flash forward to the latest hot water she s in and it s hard to tell what she d want us believe this time WHICH SHOULD WE BELIEVE?
WHAT SHE SAID TO ANDREA MITCHELL OR TO JUDY WOODRUFF?Susan Rice appeared on Andrea Mitchell.
She claimed she didn t leak nothing to nobody Did you catch that double negative?There might be more to that because she s using words in the two sentences very carefully .Check it out:SUSAN RICE VERSION ONE:WATCH: Susan Rice insists I leaked nothing to nobody https://t.co/kAsbu4VJDN MSNBC (@MSNBC) April 4, 2017SUSAN RICE VERSION TWO: I know nothing about this.
I was surprised to see reports from Chairman Nunes on that count today.
What she says is a lie but who is surprised by this?
We know that Susan Rice lied 5 times on 5 different morning shows the morning after Benghazi.
Why wouldn t she try and cover this spying up to protect herself and others including Obama.Susan Rice is also giving conflicting stories on what she did so it might be a good idea for her to lawyer up right now.
She claimed ignorance of the unmasking and spying but today she spoke about doing it.
Yes, red flags are everywhere on this!
The reality and truth is this was more of a political attack to destabilize the Trump presidency and embarrass him:The bottom line is that laws were broken when the names were unmasked Someone s in BIG trouble!Read more: circa news