Star Wars icon Mark Hamill previously mocked Donald Trump by reading one of the president-elect s mean-girl girl tweets using the voice of The Joker.
And now he s back to poke Trump in the eye by mocking the president-elect s attack on actress Meryl Streep.Most people know of Mark Hamill as Luke Skywalker in Star Wars but he s also a very talented voice-over actor.
His voice as The Joker is amazing and using his skills to mock Trump is an effective tool.
His newest jab at Trump has gone viral on Twitter and it s about the best thing you ll hear all day.
Am I the ONLY one man enough to confront this #OverratedFlunkyLoser without resorting to an ad hominem assault?
Hamill tweeted along with the recording.Am I the ONLY one man enough to confront this #OverratedFlunkyLoser without resorting to an ad hominem assault?
https://t.co/ac2j2KGryn pic.twitter.com/iH1XnPgOzm Mark Hamill (@HamillHimself) January 14, 2017Last week, Trump tweeted, Meryl Streep, one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood, doesn t know me but attacked last night at the Golden Globes.
She is a .. Hillary flunky who lost big.
For the 100th time, I never mocked a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him ., he continued.He added, groveling when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad.
Just more very dishonest media!The incoming president lashes out at people who hurt his feelings.
People like Meryl Streep, for example.
He s about to hold the highest seat in the land, yet he shows no restraint on Twitter where he has nearly 20 million followers, some of which probably follow him just to see what outrageous thing he will tweet out next.
He tweets about nukes, he manipulates the stock market by attacking brands, showing that he s already abusing the power of the presidency even before he takes the oath of office.
When he takes over the @POTUS account, we suggest you report his tweets for impersonating a president.
Impersonation accounts are against Twitter s terms of use.Photo via Wiki