In the age of oligarchy and near pandemic outbreaks of affluenza, it is truly refreshing to see a member of the rich and powerful class be held accountable for their crimes against humanity.
On Thursday, a House of Representatives hearing with Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf provided the world with one of those rare and beautiful moments when a member of the bankster class was beaten into submission by our elected officials.During the hearing, which could be described a more of a verbal execution, Stumf was lambasted from all sides by those from the panel that he was brought before.
Lawmakers such as Rep. Mick Mulvaney, a Republican, chastised Stumpf for proving progressive Democrats correct in their goal to see stronger regulations be put in place within the banking industry.
To sit here and have to watch you essentially validate everything that the other side has said about you and your business and your industry, I don t know, for the last three or four generations, is extraordinarily disappointing to me, Mulvaney said.
The damage that you have done to the market, to your industry, far exceed the damage that you ve done to your own business.
Sean Duffy, another congressional Republican (even though he is a member of the GOP, he is an ally with Sen. Elizabeth Warren when it comes to certain financial industry reforms) perhaps provided one of the best moments in the hearing, where he forced Stumf to admit that his company had stolen from the American people.
Stumpf tried to describe what Wells Fargo did in every single way he possibly could without using the word steal.
That is, of course until Duffy laid into him.
Was it theft?
Duffy asked.
Pardon me?
Stumph responded.
Was it theft?
Did you steal?
Duffy pressed.
Our people did not do what was right, Stumpf said evading the word.
My question is, did you steal?
I want to make sure you and I are on the same page.
Did Wells Fargo employees steal from a million to two million customers?
Yes or no?
In some cases.
They did.
Yes, Stumph finally admitted.Here s a clip:[ad3media campaign= 974 ]Don t think for a moment that Republicans were the only ones to hammer the CEO.
Massachusetts Democratic Representative Mike Capuano offered the coldest words of the panel members to Stumph.
You think today is tough?
When the prosecutors get a hold of you, you re going to have a lot of fun, Capuano said.If the 2016 election has proven one thing, it s that the people of the United States are out for blood.
This new wave of populism has manifested itself in horrifying ways on the right-wing, mostly in the form of Donald Trump s ascension as the GOP s presidential nominee.
That being said, Congress needs to take a cue from the people and begin to work together to right the wrongs of banking and financial deregulation.
Center Republicans and Democrats must join together with progressive lawmakers today.
The bipartisanship witnessed within Thursday s hearing can be the start of a new movement within Congress.
After all, as Mulvaney half-heartedly conceded the actions of Wells Fargo have proven that progressives have been correct in their calls for new regulations in the banking industry for decades.
Yesterday, I would have believed a unicorn sighting is more plausible than to hear those words.
The bipartisanship witnessed within Thursday s hearing can be the start of a new movement within Congress.
After all, as Mulvaney half-heartedly conceded the actions of Wells Fargo have proven that progressives have been correct in their calls for new regulations in the banking industry for decades.
Yesterday, I would have believed a unicorn sighting is more plausible than to hear those words.
You can watch the full hearing below.Featured image via video screen capture