What s the most anti-American thing someone can do besides vote for Donald Trump in November?
Apparently, right-wing freak Ted Nugent has the answer to that question, and it s something every American should hear.
Speaking with conservative radio host Joe Pags, he tells us: There is nothing more anti-American than the freaks that hate me, and when MoveOn.org, Media Matters, Southern Poverty Law Center, Rachel Maddow and MSNBC lie and spew their hate towards me, it s because I stand with the best families in America.
The man certainly thinks a lot of himself, doesn t he?
One might have thought there was no more room in this country for egos, what with Donald Trump s ego growing miles by the minute after officially locking up the GOP nomination, but one would be wrong.
It takes a lot of ego and chutzpah for Ted Nugent to say that the most anti-American thing imaginable is hating him.He says that the NRA is not a gun lobby during this interview, too.
What is it, then?
Nugent says it s mom-and-pop family America, and is standing up for the most fundamental instinct and God-given individual right that self-defense (i.e.
owning guns) is good.
Har de har har.
Only Nugent can fit this much nonsense into one interview.He also rages against Hillary Clinton and Bernie Mao Tse Tung Sanders about wanting to push gun owners down, and he talks about how he s right all the time if so many people have to hate on him so much.
Listen to him toss a major word salad below:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/266047509 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]Let s look at Nugent for a moment.
He s incredibly ammosexual in fact, he was just re-elected as a board member of the NRA, despite the fact that many of the NRA s members aren t nearly as crazy as Nugent is.
Nugent thinks that anybody who even criticizes the NRA just wants to help criminals.Before President Obama was elected, he said that he would either be dead or imprisoned within two weeks of winning the election.
That hasn t happened yet, but the Secret Service took it as a threat against Obama and investigated it.
He also referred to a lawmaker of mixed-race heritage as a subhuman mongrel.
We must acknowledge, however, that Ted Nugent is a patriot among patriots a word that s been usurped and twisted by the far right to only apply to white supremacists who love guns, fetuses and the Bible.
They hate the poor, along with starving children and anyone who thinks helping others is a good thing.
He s a true patriot, except for that time he dodged the Vietnam draft by pooping in his pants every day.
Or so he said.But to say that the most anti-American thing out there is to hate Ted Nugent is over the top, even for him.
This man suffers from delusions of grandeur that we don t even see in Donald Trump for the most part.Featured image by Jeff Swensen/Stringer/Getty Images