Working in the service industry can really be a test, as you will eventually and inevitably come in contact with an impossibly difficult, insensitive customer that makes you question your faith in humanity.
And if you haven t worked in the service industry, this story about a customer named Holly Jones will give you a pretty good idea of what a complete nightmare of a customer looks like.For New Year s Eve, Jones visited Kilroy s Bar N Grill in Indianapolis, Indiana an experience that left her less than satisfied.
Jones said that she and her party s experience was ruined due to the fact that she had to witness a dead person be wheeled out from an overdose.
And of course, because of this dead person, her table didn t get the attention she felt entitled to.
Jones was so upset, that she took to Kilroy s Facebook page to blast the restaurant for making her holiday celebration so awful.
She wrote: I will never go back to this location for New Year s Eve!!!
After the way we were treated when we spent 700+ and having our meal ruined by watching a dead person being wheeled out from an overdose my night has been ruined!!!
Every year we have come to Kilroys to enjoy New Years Eve and tonight we were screamed at and had the manager walk away from use while (we) were trying to figure out our bill being messed up.The manager also told us someone dying was more important than us being there making us feel like our business didn t matter, but I guess allowing a Junkie in the building to overdose on your property is more important than paying customers who are spending a lot of money!!
Our waitress when we were trying to ask about our bill being messed up also said what do you want me to do (expletive) pay your bill for you?
What a great way to talk to a paying customer!
I get that working on New Years Eve (is) stressful but being a complete (expletive) to us all night knowing you get an automatic gratuity is not right!!!
Kilroy sJones bad review is awful enough, but it was Kilroy s response that made this incident gain widespread media attention.
Kilroy manager Chris Burton replied to Jones and kindly informed her that the dead person who was wheeled out from an overdose was actually a 70-year-old woman who had suffered a heart attack while she was also celebrating NYE with her family.
For Jones insensitive remarks, Chris offered some harsh words of his own in return.
First of all, the overdosing junkie that you speak of was a 70-year-old woman who had a heart attack.
Thankfully she was revived at the hospital and survived.
It sounds like you were very concerned about her so I thought you should know.
This poor lady, who was celebrating New Year s Eve with her husband and son, had to be placed on the floor of a completely packed bar and have her shirt removed in front of everyone so the paramedics could work on her.
You can read Burton s full post in the screenshots below, as he closed his post with I m glad to hear you won t be coming back to Kilroy s because we wouldn t want anyone as cold-hearted and nasty as you returning.
Kilroy sKilroy sAfter Burton masterfully put Jones in her place, the incident went viral.
In another post, Kilroy s reported that the victim who suffered a heart attack was stable, but still had a long way to recover.
The bar set up a GoFundMe page, allowing supporters to donate in support of her recovery.
The goal of the page was $5,000, but the donations have exceeded twice that amount.
If there was one good thing that came out of Jones nasty attitude and review, it was this as one donor pointed out: I wonder if the lady who was upset realizes that her negativity has been a major blessing to this family .her anger and the subsequent comment from Kilroy s has lead to people learning about this gofundme and supporting this family.
You are almost at the amount you requested in 17 hours.
Without that woman, this incident could have happened all too quietly.
Featured image via Google and Screenshots