Never has a movie role so perfectly described a person as Stacey Dash s character in Clueless describes her.
Dash, the newest token multi-racial person hired by Fox News, was asked for her opinion on the current controversy over the lack of minority representation at the Academy Awards and the Oscar boycott by prominent black actors and directors.Working for Fox News means you have to be a total sellout, and Dash is no exception.
It s clear that the only reason she s being asked her opinion on the issue is to persuade the 68-year-old white men who dominate the network s demographics to believe that racism has in fact been cured in America, and here s a black woman who proves it.Dash goes on a tirade about the difference between segregation and integration, asserting that the only reason America sees any racism or segregation at all is because BET and the Essence Awards exist.
She takes it one step further into absurdity by declaring we shouldn t have Black History Month.These are all the typical arguments of institutional racism, of course, and Fox must be awfully proud to be able to drop a woman of color in a chair opposite Steve Doocey to declare such myth as fact.
The arguments are so transparent and weak.
If white people had their own network, black people would lose their minds?
White television dominates the networks, from the major players right down to Field and Stream TV, where the only black person you ll see is during a commercial break.For black people to hold their own awards show is reverse racism?
Have you considered that there s a possibility that black people feel as though they re excluded from oh, say the Oscars?
It s pretty obvious that all those poor white actors who are discriminated against by the jerks at BET have a show or two they can clearly call their own.The most ludicrous is Dash s contention that Black History Month is somehow promoting segregation.
Yes, February the shortest month of the year, mind you is set aside to honor the contributions of African Americans.
To racists and clueless idiots like Stacey Dash, that somehow gives Fox News hosts license to proclaim an unfair advantage to the black community, which is perhaps the most laughable sentiment of all time.
April is Autism Awareness Month.
Are we somehow discriminating against people with Down s syndrome by prioritizing autism for 30 days?
How about March?
March is Women s History Month.
Are we being disrespectful to half of the population because we decide to celebrate the achievements of women?It s ludicrous.
Where s the outrage over Italian-American Heritage Month?
How about Polish-American Heritage Month?
Why are they not on the radar for a good shellacking at Fox News?I think we all know why.
Racism is NOT an issue America has solved; not by a longshot.Watch Stacey Dash make the standard arguments of institutional racism below:https://www.facebook.com/AndrewRamosTV/videos/473698129488396/Featured image via screen capture