In a shocking moment of confession, Morning Joe host Joe Scarborough admitted on the air that trickle down economics is a lie that only helped the rich get richer.In an effort to explain why so many conservatives are flocking to support Republican front-runner Donald Trump, Scarborough said on Tuesday that it s because Republicans have lied to their constituents for the last thirty years that wealth will trickle down to them if we help the wealthy by cutting taxes.This can be seen most clearly in the wealth gap, which has only widened over the last three decades, resulting in the top 1 percent owning more the nation s wealth than the bottom 50 percent of the population combined.
The rich have gotten richer and the poor have only gotten poorer as the once mighty and prosperous American middle class is disappearing.
The problem with the Republican Party over the past 30 years is they haven t and I ll say, we haven t developed a message that appeals to the working class Americans economically in a way that Donald Trump s does, Scarborough said.
We talk about cutting capital gains taxes that the 10,000 people that in the crowd cheering for Donald Trump, they are never going to get a capital gains cut because it doesn t apply.
We talk about getting rid of the death tax.
The death tax is not going to impact the 10,000 people in the crowd for Donald Trump.
We talk about how great free trade deals are.
Those free trade deals never trickle down to those 10,000 people in Donald Trump s rallies.
And then the former Republican lawmaker actually flat-out admitted that trickle down hasn t worked.
But herein lies the problem with the Republican Party.
It never trickles down!
Those people in Trump s crowds, those are all the ones that lost the jobs when they get moved to Mexico and elsewhere.
The Republican donor class are the ones that got rich off of it because their capital moved overseas and they made higher profits What we re finding this year is, they ll even support a guy who says Planned Parenthood is good if he comes with an economic approach that they feel could actually help them more in the future.
Here s the video via YouTube:And Scarborough is absolutely right.
For decades, Republicans have told the American people that their economic concerns will be all taken care of as long as we eliminate taxes on the wealthy.
But all that trickle down economics has caused is Americans losing their jobs overseas and they never see a dime of the wealth the GOP promised would trickle down upon them.
It s like saying apples will fall from a tree if you just wait long enough but by the time one does fall it s rotten to the core and worthless.
And that s if the tree doesn t just keep all the apples for itself like the wealthy are currently keeping all the money to themselves.The fact is that trickle down economics is a failed economic policy that needs to be ditched in favor of one that actually helps the American people.
It s time for the rich to start paying their fair share and it s time for the middle class to rise again and take back the wealth that has been stolen by Republicans and their wealthy puppet masters.Featured image via screenshot