Donald Trump has spent this election demeaning Megyn Kelly in shockingly sexist ways.
After the first Republican debate demonstrated that Kelly wasn t afraid to call Trump on his nonsense, the front-runner floated the idea that she was so aggressive because she was menstruating.
In the following months, he has repeatedly viciously attacked her even on her own network.For her part, Kelly has always tried to take the high road.
She has argued that her goal is to move past the feud with Trump and get to a place where the two can treat each other like professionals.
Trump didn t seem to get the memo.
As his campaign has picked up (and Kelly s dream of watching Trump simply flame out dimmed), he s lashed out at her in interviews and on social media..@megynkelly, the most overrated anchor at @FoxNews, worked hard to explain away the new Monmouth poll 41 to 14 or 27 pt lead.
She said 15!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 15, 2015The constant barrage has certainly done damage to Kelly.
For years, she was seen as the rising star of Fox News and big things were lined up for her.
The fight with Trump has undermined a lot of that.
Trump s fans, many of whom were dogmatic Fox News watchers, have taken his side and Kelly has become their public enemy number one.
The sexism he hurls at her is dished out ten-fold by his rabid supporters.However, there is one tenet of Fox News that is placed above pride, integrity, self-respect or logic: Ratings.
Kelly herself admitted to PBS s Charlie Rose that Trump would probably be back on her program at some point despite his low opinion of her because that will be a big moment.
Do you think that will be a big television moment?
Apparently, the moment is now.
Sources at Fox News confirmed today that Megyn Kelly secretly snuck into Trump Tower to hold a private meeting with Trump and it s easy to guess what the agenda was.
She wants him back.Kelly reached out to Trump s office to set up the meeting, one of the sources said.The face-to-face chat raises the possibility of a Kelly-Trump interview sometime in the future.Kelly is known to be seeking high-profile guests for a Barbara Walters-style prime time special on the Fox broadcast network in May.Fox released an official statement that seems to support this.FOX News Chairman & CEO Roger Ailes has spoken to Donald Trump a few times over the past three months about appearing on a FOX Broadcasting special with Megyn Kelly airing on May 23.
Kelly requested a meeting with Mr. Trump, which took place at Trump Tower this morning.
The results of that meeting will be revealed on tonight s Kelly File at 9PM/ET.
Kelly has acknowledged in recent interviews that Trump is a fascinating person to cover and has electrified the Republican base.This is a strong about-face from just a month ago, when she confided to Variety that she s been desperate to get him back on but there was never a moment where he wasn t attacking her.
To be honest, every time I prepare an invitation to sit down with him, he attacks me on Twitter or elsewhere.
I had always been hoping I could reach out to him at a time when he wasn t angry.
I don t think it would be a good interview if he was angry at me but then he never stops with the attacks.
As we ve seen repeatedly, Fox News has only the thinnest veneer of integrity easily wiped away with profit considerations.
Trump has been ruthless in going after Kelly and other Fox hosts who don t openly grovel at his feet (and many of them do), but the network is more than willing to swallow their pride if they need to promote, say, a Barbara Walters-style prime time special and would love the ratings Trump attracts.Featured image via Craig Barritt/Getty Images for Cosmopolitan Magazine and WME Live