In a twist of fate, Donald Trump happened to be in Scotland on the day the world woke up to learn that in a xenophobic ferver the United Kingdom had voted to disembowel itself by leaving the European Union.
Within minutes of votes being counted, global financial markets were sent into complete and total disarray.
The Pound Sterling dropped to its lowest value in a century.
The UK s Prime Minister David Cameron announced he would be resigning.
Countries around the world stopped accepting British monetary exchanges because the markets were too unstable.What did Donald Trump, who hopes to someday soon lead the United States, have to say about this unfolding disaster?
He was stoked.
He reasoned that his Turnberry golf resort was going to make a killing.
I think it s a great thing that happened, Trump told reporters shortly after his helicopter landed at Trump Turnberry.
People are angry, all over the world.
People, they re angry.
When the pound goes down, more people are coming to Turnberry, frankly, Trump added during an afternoon news conference.
For traveling and for other things, I think it very well could turn out to be a positive.
To be clear, the pound didn t just go down it collapsed.Chart via the Washington PostTrump was not in Scotland for the so-called brexit vote, he was there to oversee the opening of a new hotel and golf course.
Having unofficially suspended his campaign for the weekend to worry about his golf course profits, Trump was notably over the moon about the UK s self-induced financial collapse.
But Trump also seemed irritated that what might be one of the most consequential votes in modern history was ruining his publicity stunt.
When reporters pressed him about his feelings towards Brexit, Trump started ignoring the questions entirely and focused on how great the suites were at his hotel.But on Twitter, Trump also took the opportunity to prove that he has absolutely no understanding of what the vote was all about anyway.
In an effort to prove that the world was ripe for right-wing nationalistic takeovers, he tweeted a comment so oblivious that it made international headlines.Just arrived in Scotland.
Place is going wild over the vote.
They took their country back, just like we will take America back.
No games!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 24, 2016Scotland, it was pointed out, uniformly voted to stay in the European Union.
The fact that British right-wing nationalists chose to leave is already kickstarting a Scottish independence movement.
Very soon, the United Kingdom will be neither United nor a Kingdom.
But at least Trump thinks his golf course will do well!
True leadership indeed.Featured image via Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images