If you have not heard, lying, baby parts -obsessed windbag Carly Fiorina has dropped out of the presidential race.
This is, of course, completely unsurprising given her poll numbers, which have traditionally been firmly in the gutter ever since it became common knowledge that the felons who created her favorite propaganda videos had heavily and deceptively edited them.On Wednesday, Fiorina joined fellow (former) 2016 hopeful Chris Christie in dropping out of the race.
While I suspend my candidacy today, I will continue to travel this country and fight for those Americans who refuse to settle for the way things are and a status quo that no longer works for them, Fiorina said as she pretended she has accomplished anything more than helping convince a right-wing terrorist to shoot up a Planned Parenthood facility in Colorado.As part of her outgoing message to girls and women across the country, Fiorina made it clear that females should not feel they have to vote a certain way or for a certain candidate because you re a woman (*cough*HillaryClinton*cough*).Planned Parenthood, the organization Fiorina has chosen to spend nearly every waking hour maligning, also had an outgoing message for the failed former Hewlett-Packer CEO.
It wasn t Bye, Felicia, but it might as well have been.
Farewell to @CarlyFiorina, the women s health organization said in a tweet.
It turns out you can t flat-out lie to the American people about Planned Parenthood.
Farewell to @CarlyFiorina.
It turns out you can t flat-out lie to the American people about Planned Parenthood.
pic.twitter.com/13TxefxnV2 Planned Parenthood (@PPact) February 10, 2016Fiorina may be gone, but the fight against anti-abortion extremists will surely continue a fight we absolutely must win.
The best way to protect women is to vote in November.
The next President will appoint as many as four Supreme Court justices.
This, of course, has the power to swing the power heavily in favor of regressive, or progressive, policies.
In other words, if we want women to continue to have dominion over their own bodies, we must vote BLUE in November.Featured image via screengrab (1,2)