Donald Trump and his incompetent, corrupt team got their a**es handed to them today on The View, following the massive controversy surrounding the resignation of General Mike Flynn from his role as National Security Advisor last night.This was a topic that co-host Joy Behar could not wait to get into, as she ripped into Trump and sarcastically said what most of us have been thinking about the Flynn situation: I thought he knew more than the generals!
He knows everything else, right?
Exactly.
Trump spend his entire presidential campaign acting like he knew more than everyone else, and even remarked that he knew more than the generals do about ISIS.
Now more than ever, Trump has proven that his statements were complete lies and this fiasco with General Flynn exposes it perfectly.
If Trump had known everything, he would have known that Flynn was speaking with Russian officials and that Flynn had lied to VP Mike Pence about his communications with Russia.Behar was hardly the only host on The View who wanted to say something about it co-hosts Jedediah Bila and Whoopi Goldberg jumped at the chance to weigh in.
Bila slammed Trump and his team for being so reckless with their appointments and for dropping the ball.
She said: There s no way that he didn t know about it.
Everyone went and said, Look, this could potentially compromise our national security because this guy may potentially get bribed.
Then what happens?
Kellyanne Conway has the responsibility to be informed.
This is falling on the heels of her having that huge controversy promoting Ivanka [Trump] s line and now she s out there talking about, I didn t know.
No, it s your job to know and it s Donald Trump s job to know.
If there is someone in your administration that could potentially jeopardize our national security, that becomes our problem and it s your job to protect us.
That s your one job!
Goldberg also shredded Trump, stating that this is what happens when highly problematic, unqualified people are put in positions just to piss people off.
The entire show was filled with sarcasm and shots directed at Trump and his administration.
This was one of The View s best anti-Trump segments, and you can watch the hosts go off on our should-be-impeached president below:Featured image via screenshot and Steve Pope / Getty Images