Marco Rubio, who is now working doggedly to keep his mostly-empty Senate seat, actually has something new to say about Donald Trump.
He s drunk the Kool-Aid, but it must have been an especially strong cup of it, because his statement actually makes Trump and the RNC look worse than ever, if that s possible.Trump must learn about an awful lot if he s going to be president considerably more than most other presidential candidates in our history.
Rubio said: As he settles into this role as the nominee and ultimately the president, access to these issues is going to begin to, in some ways, kind of shape some of the policy positions given reality versus perhaps what you might read about on a blog somewhere.
Har de har har don t make us laugh too hard.
It hurts.
And on top of that, the stupid here just burns.
Sure, nobody s born knowing how to be President, and all of them have things to learn as they go along.
Trump, though, has shown zero interest in learning anything at all and Rubio knows that.
This is the man who said, at a presser just this morning, that he s never had a second thought.
This is the man who said his best foreign policy adviser is himself.
This is the man that emailed foreign governments for campaign donations.This is the man who called on Russia to help him win this election: Russia, if you re listening, I hope you re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.
I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.
Despite all that, here s Rubio, now saying that Donald Trump will learn once he s elected.
He s completely forgotten that Trump gets a lot of his news from sites like The Drudge Report and Alex Jones InfoWars.
Just how strong was that Kool-Aid, anyway?
It s a wonder Rubio doesn t suffer some kind of poisoning from it.
Trump will never accept sane advisers, because sane advisers won t tell him what he wants to hear.Rubio is in a close race in Florida.
The #NeverTrump crowd could decide to sit out the vote over this, or vote for Democrat Patrick Murphy.
Considering that Trump might be a moment of reckoning for Republican candidates and the party as a whole, defending Trump by saying it s perfectly okay if he learns once he s elected, when he s proven time and again that he s certain he already knows everything imaginable, is pretty stupid.
Buh-bye, Marco.Featured image by Angel Valentin/Getty Images