Joy Reid is unbelievable when she claims the Texas anti-sanctuary city law Sounds Almost Like an Apartheid-era Law So now enforcing the law is just like South African apartheid??
?The ACLU lawyer even agrees with Reid about the law These lefty political hacks are undermining the rule of law in America:ABBOTT SIGNS BILL ON SANCTUARY CITIES: Texas Governor Abbott just signed a ban on so-called sanctuary cities COMMON SENSE IS BACK!Chances of this not being challenged in court are slim.
It s pretty sad when your governor can t even enforce laws already on the books.
Pitiful!Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott on Sunday signed a law targeting so-called sanctuary cities that allows police to ask about a person s immigration status and threatens sheriffs with jail if they don t cooperate with federal authorities.He signed the bill on Facebook today:Governor Abbott stated before signing the bill: Let s be clear about something.
We all support legal immigration.
It helped to build America and Texas.
Legal immigration is different from harboring people who have committed dangerous crimes.
This law cracks down on policies like the Travis County sheriff who declared she would not detain known criminals accused of violent crimes.
Those policies are sanctuary city policies and won t be tolerated in Texas.
Abbott, a Republican in his first term, took the unusual step of signing the bill on Facebook with no advanced public notice.
He said Texas residents expect lawmakers to keep us safe and said similar laws have already been tested in federal court, where opponents have already been hinting the bill will be immediately challenged.
Texas has now banned sanctuary cities in the Lone Star State, Abbott said.We couldn t be happier about this!The bill cleared a final hurdle this week in the Republican-controlled Legislature over objections from Democrats and immigrant rights supporters who ve packed the Texas Capitol.
They call it a show-me-your-papers measure that will be used to discriminate against Latinos.Every major police chief in Texas opposed the bill.
Republicans say it is needed to ensure local jails honor requests from federal officials to keep dangerous offenders behind bars.The Texas bill allows police to inquire about the immigration status of anyone they detain, a situation that can range from arrest for a crime to being stopped for a traffic violation.This is HUGE!Attorney General Jeff Sessions also put sanctuary cities on notice.
The President and Sessions are putting the American people first when it comes to criminal illegal aliens:Read more: news9