Trump just can t get anything off the ground for his failing presidency.
Every time his approval numbers start to inch up, he does something else and the next poll shows his approval in the tank again.
And sometimes, like now, it slips below its previous crater.According to a Quinnipiac poll conducted May 4-9, only 36 percent of registered approve of the job Trump is doing.
That s down from 40 percent in mid-April, and is a near-record low for his presidency.
On April 4, his approval was 35 percent.This poll was conducted before Trump fired James Comey from his position as FBI Director, so that controversy hasn t hit the polls yet.
This nosedive is in response to other things Trump and the Republicans have done over the last several weeks.
But even without that, 61 percent of voters think Trump is a goddamn liar (he is), and 66 percent believe he s not levelheaded (he isn t).Trump s biggest drop was among white voters without a college education.
These people are the same who voted for him because they bought his song and dance about being able to bring an unprecedented level of prosperity back to them.
Just 47 percent approve of his job now, compared to 57 percent last month.10 percent is a huge drop for less than four weeks, particularly from Trump s own base.Another interesting aspect of this poll is that a majority of Americans now want the Democrats to take control of Congress in 2018 that number stands at 54 percent, compared to just 38 percent that want Republicans to retain control.
The biggest thing people seem to be unhappy with is the GOP s very unpopular plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Neither Trump nor Republicans seem to care that even their own constituents want them to fix the ACA rather than repeal it.On April 19, Trump s approval rating among independents was 38 percent, and that has likewise plummeted.
It stands at just 29 percent now.Remember, none of this includes the clusterfuck surrounding James Comey s termination.
It ll be interesting to see what happens going forward that decision was extremely controversial, and Congressional Democrats, along with some Republicans, are unhappy and suspicious now.Featured image by Molly Riley-Pool via Getty Images