The Twilight actress absolutely shredded the Republican nominee.And the reason why is pretty clear.
Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump has repeatedly insulted women to the point where if only women voted in this election Hillary Clinton would win in a landslide that would give her a mandate.Indeed, Clinton is on pace to do even better with women on November 8th than President Obama did in 2008 and 2012.But just in case there are women out there who have not heard any of the things Trump has said about them, Nikki Reed blasted Trump s misogyny in a new video posted by Humanity For Hillary.In the video, Reed slammed Donald Trump and all the men who support him in an NSFW feminist smackdown that Trump is going to throw a hissy fit about on Twitter for days.
This has been a bruising election, Reed begins.
On the one hand, we have the chance to elect a lifelong public servant, powerful, experienced, highly qualified to be the first female President of the United States.
On the other hand, a candidate who reminds us of the worst men in our lives.
Men who saw a powerful woman and tried to block her rise.
Our rise.
Men who called us bossy, unlikable, liars, and attention seekers.
Ambitious, like that s a bad thing.
Reed went on to talk about how misogynists like Trump attacked women for doing things like writing books and making movies and that when women continued to achieve new heights despite them they started hurling insults like the C-word, a word that Donald Trump has used in the past.
I ve been called the C-word, Reed said.
Have you been called the C-word?
Reed then pointed out that there is an anti-Hillary SuperPac called C.U.N.T.
and proceeded reference Trump calling Hillary a nasty woman by calling upon all nasty women to vote against Trump on Election Day because we are so very close to putting all of that behind us because nasty women vote.
And then she sent a message to Trump and his deplorable sexist supporters.
So Donald Trump and to every man like Donald Trump who grabbed us, blocked us, who called us fat, unqualified, stupid, ugly and c*nt, we have one thing to say to you: C. U.
Next Tuesday.
Here s the video via Facebook.Make no mistake, if this campaign and Donald Trump s life before it are any indication, women will be treated like absolute shit if Trump somehow becomes president.
There is no doubt about that whatsoever.
That s why is it crucial that women vote on Election Day no matter what.
Because if Trump wins, women will lose everything they have fought for over the last 100 years, including the right to vote.Featured image via video screen capture