A Canadian tech company is capitalizing on Donald Trump s scary rise to the top by offering refuge to American workers in the field of technology.Sortable, based out of Kitchener, Ontario, has started as a brand new automated ad company that aims to make ads suck less.
I first ran across Sortable while scrolling down my Facebook newsfeed.
The business is paying for advertising on the social media network and their ad made me laugh out loud:Sortable says they want to offer people in the tech industry a safe place to live and work if Donald Trump is elected president.
Now, while we don t think Americans will actually move en masse to Canada if the election doesn t go their way, we do want to extend an offer.
Because it s the polite, Canadian thing to do Over the last year, Sortable s popularity has followed a similar trajectory to Trump s. We have been growing 40% month over month, and our ad engine is handling 3 billion ad impressions each month.
While Donald Trump has been really bad for America, he is actually proving to be quite profitable for our Northern neighbor.
Sortable isn t the first Canadian entity to offer their country up as an alternative option if Trump is elected.
Recently an island in the country also announced they would welcome us with arms wide open if the billionaire somehow manages to bamboozle his way into the White House.
Further, the anti-Trump sentiment across America has given the country a noticable bump in tourism.Sortable s founder Christopher Reid said he began the ad campaign after watching the progression of the United States presidential election: It s bizarre and it s funny and we thought, why not use that as an opportunity to sort of promote the fact that we re hiring aggressively and we re looking globally.
We re doing it because we need to find people and it s fun.
What s perhaps even funnier than the campaign to lure American workers to the company, is their attempt to bring Canadians, who are working in Silicon Valley, back home:While it is funny to watch Canadian businesses and towns use Donald Trump s rise to power to advertise, it s also really embarrassing for America.
We are quickly becoming a laughingstock around the world.
It was bad enough when our allies were scratching their heads and wondering why we have so many mass shootings while they have virtually none, but now we have Bozo the Clown running for president.
Trump s steady flow of hate, bigotry and bullshit is damaging our already bruised reputation further.These kinds of ad campaigns further highlight how important it is that Democrats get off of their sofas and vote in November.
We have way too much at stake.Featured image via Facebook