When President Asterisk assured us he was assembling a crew of the best and brightest white people who didn t despise him and everything he stands for, he failed to mention that he would be recruiting only from a pool of people too stupid to operate a spoon without at least two adults supervising.On Thursday, Press Secretary Sean Spicer went from alternative facts to alternative password fields when he accidentally tweeted and deleted what appears to be his password to something (who knows what?)
for the second time in two days.#FLASH Trumps White House Press Secretary, Sean Spicer, tweets out password, not once, but twice in 2 days.
Just amazing.
pic.twitter.com/dwZFKx4RqB J ST R CTUAL (@th3j35t3r) January 26, 2017 And apparently a third:Spicer has increased his password entropy but unfortunately is still tweeting it to 1.37 million people pic.twitter.com/wwJUXxL1LP Seth Kranzler (@polyrhythmic) January 27, 2017He, like Trump, also apparently chooses to connect his Twitter to a Gmail account:@th3j35t3r help yourself with guessing his incredibly difficult gmail he uses for twitter.
And last two digits of his phone number pic.twitter.com/yRdGzELvEd Ale (@aliasvaughn) January 26, 2017Naturally, the world mocked Spicer for being stupid enough to tweet out his password not one but multiple times:Ha ha Sean Spicer Tweeted out his password.
What an idiotpattonlovescarbs99 Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) January 26, 2017Well, at least Sean Spicer wasn't using '[email protected]' like John Podesta :/ Anonymous (@YourAnonNews) January 26, 2017@notch @th3j35t3r can't wait for the tweet that is "Siri text donald its ok to fire some nukes" Rukes (@rukes) January 26, 2017Trump: Hillary uses an unsecure email, lock her up.Trump uses an unsecure gmail account.Spicer posts password to twitter.?
Planty (@MrPlantToYou) January 26, 2017@th3j35t3r that's no password it's a bug in his AI construct.
Spicer 2.0 should be a bit more stable Saurav Shrestha (@zaurav) January 26, 2017@th3j35t3r I knew they couldn't keep the nuclear codes to themselves.
Michael Martinez (@MichaelMartinez) January 26, 2017@th3j35t3r on the bright side it only took him a day to include numbers.
In no time flat he'll be using special characters and 2FA.
Dante (@DJ_NeuroTrip) January 26, 2017@PressSec Hi Sean!
Your password is good but I recommend adding an uppercase letter.
@erinscafe @ParkerMolloy @sarahkendzior @bessbell pic.twitter.com/POXnFrs5jT UXR Mike (@ryaninteractive) January 26, 2017Bannon isn t the only member of the Trump administration to get caught up in an internet-related oopsie-daisy recently.
The Donald s entire senior staff was recently busted using private RNC email accounts also known as doing that thing for which they criticized Hillary and a hacker revealed that Trump s own Twitter security is completely lackluster.
Not only does he have the bare minimum in terms of security attached to his @POTUS account, but he had originally registered it to a Gmail account until news broke and the account went through a rather hilarious shuffling of registered email addresses.These are the people who are in charge of our country: a morons of people whose qualifications make them more suited for taste testing bleach than being in control of the most powerful nation in the world.It hasn t even been a week and the entire Trump Team has proved to be a monumental security risk, Trump has stripped international healthcare organizations that so much as mention abortion of all federal funding, taken the first step to tearing down Obamacare, diverted taxpayer funds to build his stupid wall, taken the first step toward a total Muslim ban, authorized two environment-destroying pipelines, tweeted out a threat to invade Chicago, and even authorized the construction of concentration camps to hold the millions and millions of undocumented immigrants he plans to waste billions deporting.This.
Is.
Not.
Normal.
This is not OK.Featured image via Getty Images (Drew Angerer)/screengrab