In a shocking turn of events, the Trump administration has done something good.
I know that s hard to imagine while Trump has been working to crackdown on immigration.According to the Washington Post, the Trump administration is leaving in place the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, a program protecting hundreds of thousands young immigrants from deportation.
It s also the very same program Trump had pledged to eliminate as a presidential candidate.Crazy, right?Referred to as dreamers, these young immigrants arrived in the U.S. as small children and raised in the U.S. For them there is no recollection of their former home country.
To protect these young immigrants from deportation to a land they do not know, the DACA program was launched in 2012 and has since protected about 787,000 young immigrants from deportation.Despite Trump s vow, Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly quietly announced the decision to keep the program at the bottom of a fact sheet released late Thursday.Of course, there s a caveat to this program remaining in place.
In the fact sheet, Kelly declared the end to Deferred Action for Parents of Americans, or DAPA, a similar, but never implemented program intended to shield immigrant parents of U.S. citizens and legal residents from deportation.No idea what made Trump and his administration change their mind on DACA but thankfully Obama s program will remain in place for young immigrants.Unfortunately, that s not the case for parents.DAPA was blocked by a federal judge in Texas after 26 states sued.
The Washington Post goes on to say that Republicans saw it as a backdoor amnesty and argued that Obama overstepped his authority by protecting a specific class of immigrants living in the United States illegally.
Trump did mention in an Associated Press interview in April that his administration is not after the dreamers, we are after the criminals and The Dreamers should rest easy.
If that s the case, the question then becomes: why block it for parents?
If they re not criminals, why shouldn t they get protection, too?Though we have a win, there s still much work to be done.Featured image via Diego G Diaz/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images