Radio stations in multiple states have been playing YG s Fuck Donald Trump song ever since the man-baby s inauguration because of a hacker.
Trolling level: expert.
A South Carolina radio station which typically plays oldies and beach music on Monday said it had been hacked to play the anti-Trump song, according to BuzzFeed.In a message to fans of Sunny 107.9, President Frank Patterson of the Lake Keowee Broadcasting Group wrote that the station had been hacked.
This is NOT our broadcast!
Patterson wrote on Monday.
We at WFBS do not take political views!
The FCC and WFBS are working to fix this situation ASAP.
On the same day as Trump s inauguration, a radio station in San Angelo, Texas, which typically plays R&B oldies played the Anti-Trump song.
The station couldn t figure out how to turn the song from repeatedly playing.Stations all over the country have reported the same thing, even a Spanish-language station in Tennessee.
Another station in Evansville, Indiana and one in Louisville, Kentucky.
OK, not funny.
some one [sic] has hacked into out [sic] transmitter tower, and the FM was playing a mp3 clip repeatedly of %$^# Donald Trump, Crescent Hill Radio wrote on Facebook on Jan. 20, the Courier-Journal reports.
We disagree.
It is funny.
The song played on a loop for 15 glorious minutes until the station s manager figured out how to shut it down.A pirate radio station in Seattle has been intentionally looping the song for a week straight.Seattle radio station 101.9 is playing the song fuck Donald trump on loop #InaugurationDay2017 David Cleckley (@dclex_) January 21, 2017Watch:One station told Heat Street that they figured out finally how to cut the NASTY song off.
You know what s really nasty, though?
Disallowing kids, women and men who are trying to flee from terror into our country to gain safe harbor.
What s really nasty is targeting minorities and the LGBTQ community.
Taking away healthcare from millions of people is nasty.Fuck Donald Trump.Image via screen capture.