Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump was again confronted with the incident in which he retweeted a sexist photo attacking Ted Cruz s wife, Heidi.
Unlike so many other times in the past with the news media, CNN anchor Anderson Cooper didn t let Trump s childish defense off the hook.Donald Trump on his feud with Ted Cruz: "I didn't start it."
#GOPTownHall https://t.co/5IleC1wZS4 https://t.co/O71FnQPiYZ CNN (@CNN) March 30, 2016Trump replied that despite it being fairly obvious that he was attempting to do just that, that wasn t his intent.
I thought it was a nice picture of Heidi, he said.Cooper replied, Come on, you re running for president of the United States.
Look, Trump replied, I didn t start it.
Sir, with all due respect, that s the argument of a five-year-old, Cooper said.
It is not, Trump replied.
It is not!
The argument of a five-year-old is, He started it !
Cooper said.The exchange came on day in which Trump crossed the line of decency yet again, defending his campaign manager on the same day he was arrested and charged with battery of a female reporter.In a press conference, Trump suggested that the bruises photographed on the reporter s arm after the incident were possibly faked.
Facing an electorate in the fall that will be majority woman, Trump has instead defended his staffers using language right out of the domestic abuse handbook.The Trump campaign appears to be engaging in textbook victim-blaming.
When Fields first reported what happened to her, Trump s campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, suggested Fields was not believable because she had reported a previous incident of police abuse.
This is a classic tactic used to undermine women and other individuals who report assault claiming that because a person reports assault more than once, he or she must be lying.The Republican Party already had a problem with women, as Mitt Romney got beaten by 11% amongst that group, but with Trump engaging in sexist attacks, victim blaming, and with a long history of misogynist comments, the Republican Party faces a possible bloodbath at the polls.
Featured image via Twitter