If you thought no one in Washington D.C. was feeling the same way about Donald Trump as you are, think again.
Several people within the halls of Congress think he s as illegitimate as you do.In fact, one Congressman, Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) has gone so far as to create a Cloud of Illegitimacy Clock in honor of Trump.If you visit Lieu s Media Center portion of his official Congressional website, this is what you ll see:lieu.house.govHere s Lieu s statement regarding Trump s violation of Article 1, Section 9 of the United States Constitution: The second after Donald Trump took the oath of office, he violated the Constitution and continues to do so.
The Framers wrote Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution to prevent foreign influence over our elected officials.
It mandates that no person holding office shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever from any King, Prince, or foreign State.
While holding office, Mr. Trump will receive by virtue of his continued interest in the vast and global Trump Organization and his stake in hundreds of other entities a steady stream of monetary and other benefits from foreign powers and their agents.
This is illegal.Trump can stop his illegal behavior by divesting his global business interests or putting them into blind trusts.
He refuses to do so.
Not only is he violating the law, he is explicitly putting his financial interests and those of his family above the interests of America.
Trump is not making America First, he is making America Second.As a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, I will do everything I can to hold Trump accountable.
My first action is the creation of a Cloud of Illegitimacy Clock that keeps track of the seconds, minutes, hours, and days that Trump is operating outside of the law.
At some point, the Clock is going to catch up to Trump.
For now, Trump appears to be taking the position of former President Richard Nixon that when the president does it, that means it is not illegal.
How did that work out?
What Trump is doing is illegal and action must be taken to stop it.
Either he needs to cut all financial ties completely or he should be forced to resign or impeached and brought to justice as the crook that he so apparently seems to be.Good on Rep. Lieu for taking the first steps in holding Trump accountable.
You can t do anything without calling him out on his illegal activity first.
Well done.Featured Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images