While the lying media is perpetuating the lie refugees do not pose a terrorist threat, the facts show otherwise.1) On May 25, 2016, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Bilal Abood was sentenced to four years in prison for making a false statement to the FBI.
Abood, an Iraqi translator for the U.S. military, was admitted to the United States through the Special Immigrant Visa program for Iraqi translators in 2009, and subsequently became a citizen.
Abood enlisted in the Army and went through basic training at Fort Jackson in 2010, but left for unknown reasons.
According to court documents, after being prevented from boarding an international flight, Abood told FBI agents that he intended to go to Iraq to visit family.
Subsequently, Abood left the United States through Mexico and then traveled through various countries to get to Syria to join ISIS.
A subsequent search of his computer revealed that he pledged an oath to the leader of ISIS, despite denying that he had ever made such a pledge.2) On January 7, 2016, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California, Aws Mohammed Younis Al-Jayab was charged with providing materially false, fictitious, and fraudulent statements and representations to the United States government.
He was separately indicted on March 17, 2016 for attempting to provide material support to acts of violence overseas.
Al-Jayab a Palestinian born in Iraq was admitted to the United States as a refugee in 2012.
According to the criminal complaint, beginning in October of 2012 the very same month he first arrived in the United States Al-Jayab began communicating with numerous individuals about his intention to go to Syria and fight for terrorist organizations.3) On January 7, 2016, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Omar Faraj Saeed Al Hardan was charged in an indictment with attempting to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization, making false statements, and attempting to procure citizenship or naturalization unlawfully.
The indictment states that he attempted to provide training, expert advice and assistance, and personnel specifically himself to a terrorist organization.
Al Hardan a Palestinian born in Iraq was admitted to the United States as a refugee in 2009, and obtained a green card in 2011.
When applying to become a U.S. citizen, he knowingly responded, certified, and swore untruthfully that he was not associated with a terrorist organization when, in fact, he associated with members and sympathizers of ISIS throughout 2014.
During an interview in October 2015, Al Hardan falsely represented that he had never received any type of weapons training, when in fact he had received automatic machine gun training.
According to media accounts, Al Hardan told his wife I will go to Syria.
I want to blow myself up.
.
.
.
I am against America.
4) On August 12, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Idaho, Fazliddin Kurbanov was found guilty of conspiring and attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization and possessing an unregistered destructive device.
Kurbanov is a native of Uzbekistan who came to the United States as a refugee in 2009.
U.S. Assistant Attorney General John Carlin stated that he conspired to provide material support to the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and procured bomb-making materials in the interest of perpetrating a terrorist attack on American soil.
5) On April 20, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, Guled Ali Omar was charged with conspiracy and attempt to provide material support to ISIS.
Omar was born in a Kenyan refugee camp, and sources indicate he came to the United States as a refugee when he was a child, obtained a green card, and subsequently applied for and received citizenship.
Omar is the younger brother of another indicted fugitive, Ahmed Ali Omar, who left the United States in 2007 to fight for Al-Shabaab.
Another one of his brothers, Mohamed Ali Omar, was convicted in March of 2015 of threatening federal agents when they came to the family s residence to interview Guled Omar.6) On April 20, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, Abdurahman Yasin Daud was charged (along with six others) with conspiracy and attempt to provide material support to ISIS.
Daud, a Somalian refugee who came to the United States as a child, and subsequently obtained a green card.
Daud and another individual drove from Minnesota to San Diego to attempt to get passports, cross the border into Mexico, and fly to Syria in to join ISIS.7) On February 18, 2015, Al-Hazmah Mohammed Jawed was arrested as he attempted to board a flight to Jordan to join and fight with ISIS in Iraq.
Jawad was admitted to the United States in 2013 as an Iraqi refugee and he subsequently obtained a green card.
Jawad was charged with making a false statement to U.S. government officials.
He also stated that he had been to the shooting range and had been running to get in shape and prepare for his upcoming travels, and that a uniform was waiting for him in Iraq.8) On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas, Abdinassir Mohamud Ibrahim was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison for conspiring to provide material support to Al-Shabaab, a designated foreign terrorist organization, and for making a false statement in his immigration paperwork.
Ibrahim is a native of Somalia who came to the United States as a refugee in 2007 at the age of 22 and subsequently obtained a green card.
Ibrahim knowingly lied on his citizenship application and previously lied in his request for refugee status, by falsely claiming that he was of a member of the minority Awer clan in Somalia and subject to persecution by the majority Hawiye clan.
Ibrahim was actually a member of the Hawiye clan and not subject to persecution.
In fact, according to court documents, Ibrahim s family was famous .
.
.
[and] [t]hrough his clan lineage, Ibrahim was related to known Somali terrorists[.]
Ibrahim also admitted he lied on his citizenship application by having previously lied on his refugee application by falsely claiming that he had not provided material support to a terrorist group, when he had in fact provided material support in the form of cash to an Al-Shabaab member.9) On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Abdullah Ramo Pazara was named in an indictment against six individuals.
Pazara, a native of Bosnia who sources indicate came to the United States as a refugee, later obtained a green card and became a citizen in 2013.
Pazara was never charged in this case because he is believed to be dead.
According to court documents, the others who were indicted provided material support to Pazara, who left the United States to go to Syria and fight with ISIS just 11 days after becoming a citizen.10) On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Ramiz Zijad Hodzic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists, providing material support to terrorists, and conspiring to kill and maim persons in a foreign country.
Hodzic is a native of Bosnia, and a purported Bosnian war hero who came to the United States as a refugee.
According to the indictment, among other things, Hodzic obtained money that he used to purchase materials and supplies including: United States military uniforms, tactical combat boots, military surplus goods, tactical gear and clothing, firearms accessories, optical equipment and range finders, rifle scopes, equipment, and supplies .
.
.
intending that the materials and supplies would thereafter be transferred to, and used to support Abdullah Ramo Pazara and ISIS.On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Sedina Unkic Hodzic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists, and providing material support to terrorists.
Sedina is the wife of Ramiz Zijad Hodzic and a native of Bosnia who came to the United States as a refugee.
According to the indictment, Sedina, along with her husband, collected money from third parties and wired it to terrorists abroad.
Also according to the indictment, Sedina shipped six boxes of U.S. military uniforms, combat boots, tactical clothing and gear, military surplus items, firearms accessories, rifle scopes, optical equipment, first aid supplies, and other equipment to terrorists abroad.On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Armin Harcevic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists, and with providing material support to terrorists.
Harcevic is a native of Bosnia who came to the United States as a refugee, and subsequently obtained a green card.
According to the Indictment, Harcevic collected money from third parties and wired it and his own funds to terrorists abroad.On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Nihad Rosic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists, providing material support to terrorists, and conspiring to kill and maim persons in a foreign country.
Rosic is a native of Bosnia who sources indicate came to the United States as a refugee, obtained a green card, and subsequently applied for and received citizenship.
According to the indictment, Rosic sent funds to terrorists abroad, and attempted to travel to Syria to join terrorists in Syria and Iraq.
According to press accounts, Rosic was a truck driver and former mixed martial arts fighter who had previously been charged with endangering the welfare of a child after punching a woman in the face while she held a child, and in a separate incident, was charged with assault after allegedly beating his girlfriend with a belt.On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Mediha Medy Salkicevic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists, and providing material support to terrorists.
Salkicevic is a native of Bosnia who sources indicate came to the United States as a refugee, obtained a green card, and subsequently applied for and received citizenship.
According to press accounts, Salkicevic was formerly an employee with a cargo company that deals with items coming in and out of Chicago s O Hare International Airport.On February 5, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Jasminka Ramic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists, and providing material support to terrorists.
Ramic is a native of Bosnia who sources indicate came to the United States as a refugee, obtained a green card, and subsequently applied for and received citizenship.On January 29, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, a federal warrant was unsealed for the arrest of Liban Haji Mohamed for allegedly providing material support to Harakat Shabaab Al-Mujahidin, also known as Al-Shabaab and Al-Qaeda.
Mohamed is a native of Somalia who sources indicate came to the United States as a refugee, obtained a green card, and subsequently applied for and received citizenship.
He is believed to have left the United States on July 5, 2012, with the intent to join Al-Shabaab in East Africa.
Mohamed previously lived in the Washington, D.C. area and worked as a cab driver, and is believed to have snuck across the border to Mexico after being placed on the no-fly list.
Carl Ghattas, Special Agent in Charge of the FBI s Washington, D.C. Field Office emphasized the importance of locating Mohamed, because he has knowledge of the Washington, D.C. area s infrastructure such as shopping areas, Metro, airports, and government buildings .
.
.
[t]his makes him an asset to his terrorist associates who might plot attacks on U.S. soil.
For the rest of the list, go to: Information Liberation