Rachel Maddow has a way of cutting to the point with a very sharp knife, and if the point is raw and bloody when she s done, then it deserves to be.
On Friday night, Maddow discussed the dangerous, white supremacist views of the alt-right, and how they relate to Donald Trump s campaign.
One side of American politics is pulling a drag bar through the sewer tank of what gets flushed out of normal politics.
She s right the fact that white supremacists that think immigration from anywhere other than Europe means white genocide are embracing Trump is extremely telling.She began this particular segment with a clip of Hillary Clinton denouncing Trump and the dangerous alt-right.
Those total bigots held a press conference last week, where they discussed the need for a white homeland as though it was the most natural thing on the planet.
To them, Trump is their white (emphasis on white) knight in shining armor: [Richard] Spencer [who coined the term alt-right ] was greeted with much applause by his fans in the room.
He elaborated that rather than a multicultural America, his ideal is a white empire.
He described his dream ethno-state as a homeland for all Europeans, which would take an imperial form.
Here s how Trump fits into that, via Mother Jones:Spencer s ideas about race are intertwined with his support for Trump.
Spencer explained that he likes Trump s immigration policy, which not only calls for mass deportation of undocumented immigrants but also reduces legal immigration into the country.
(Spencer s ideal policy would also favor immigrants from Europe.)
But as Spencer put it, it s Trump s more intangible qualities that make him a hero of the alt-right.
To Spencer, Trump s brash style suggests a white savoir, unwilling to be bullied by the politically correct crowd.
These are the people who love Donald Trump, and that s what Maddow was highlighting in her show this evening.
Watch some of it below:They ve made him one of their own because, to them, he hates everyone they hate.
He ll make the white race truly superior again.
Note that we said everyone; that s not by accident.
The alt-right wants an actual homeland for white people, because to them, white people are victims, and have totally not forced themselves on other cultures at all: Spencer proposed the following mantra for his movement: Race is real, race matters, and race is the foundation of identity.
The ultimate ideal is that the world be divided into ethno-states so that white people could have a homeland.'
And Trump is directly feeding into that.
The fact that those closest to him love Pepe the Frog a symbol co-opted by the alt-right proves that.
Pepe the Frog was a symbol for, well, pretty much everything, but now white supremacists use him for their eugenics propaganda.
It s sick, it s disgusting, and it needs to stop.
These people need to go back to the far fringes where they effing belong.Featured image by Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images