Donald Trump should be coming to the realization that his Muslim ban may have been just a step too far.
But in case he needs help figuring it out, Democrats are ready to help teach him a lesson.According to Politico, high-ranking lawmakers on numerous committees sent a letter to DHS Secretary John Kelly on Sunday night.
They demanded that he hold an emergency meeting to discuss Trump s unlawful executive order banning Muslims from entering the United States.
As ranking members of the committees of jurisdiction for matters of immigration, border security, and admission of refugees, we write to you on an emergency basis to request a meeting to discuss the implementation and guidance concerning the Executive Order, the congressmen wrote.The letter was reportedly signed by House Judiciary Committee ranking member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Homeland Security ranking member Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.
), Foreign Affairs Committee ranking member Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), top Democrat on Judiciary s immigration panel.
In their letter, the lawmakers pointed out that only two days after the Order was signed, it is clear that it has already led to panic and disorder, not to mention protests.
Lofgren intends to introduce legislation this week in an effort to fight Trump s bigoted ban.
Unfortunately, Paul Ryan being the fickle fellow that he is, is now supporting Trump s order even though he denounced the idea of religious tests just six months ago.
This means Logren s move will probably end up dead in the water.Democrats are asking Kelly to sit down with them no later than Wednesday.
In addition, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi have both reached out to Kelly on their own.In the letter, the lawmakers also blasted DHS for accusations that customs officials have been denying legal counsel to detainees.
Given the widespread chaos and confusion caused by the order and the issuance of stays last evening concerning the Order by federal courts in New York, Virginia, and Massachusetts, they wrote, it is vital that we meet as soon as possible so that we may provide needed guidance and information to our committees and our constituents.
House and Senate Democrats also intend to stage a protest in front of the Supreme Court at 6 p.m. on Monday night.
The fight is only just beginning but Democrats intend to battle Trump s bigotry every step of the way.
Some Dems have even said that they are exploring all legal options, including an Amicus Brief in support of the ACLU.
The letter concluded with the lawmakers telling Kelly that they look forward to meeting with you in short order so that we can have an open and candid discussion about how the Trump administration arrived at this chaotic place, what you understand the meaning of the Executive Order to be, and what guidance you have offered to your employees and other stakeholders.
Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images