Everyone paying attention to the 2016 presidential election, regardless of politics, realizes that Donald Trump is not fit to hold the office he seeks.
The man is clearly dangerously unqualified to take the oath of the presidency, and the idea that he might do so in January is absolutely terrifying.Well, the Democrats have put together a star-studded event to make sure that voters understand what is at stake here, and to make sure that people vote blue from the top on down this November, and one such star was none other then Vice President Joe Biden.
VP Biden is likeable, adorable, smart, charming and funny.
He s also incredibly knowledgeable.
He knows what he is talking about, and he knows that the difference between the two choices this year is like night and day.
Here is what Biden said, in part, to make his case against Trump, via Daily Kos:Let me say this as clearly as I can, if you live in the neighborhoods like the ones Jill and I grew up in, if you worry about your job and getting a decent pay, if you worry about your children s education, if you are taking care of an elderly parent, then there is only one person in the selection will help you, only one person in this race who will be there, who has always been there for you and that is Hillary Clinton s life story.
Not just who she is, it is her life story.
[Cheers] She is always there.
She has always been there.
[Cheers] And so has Tim kaine.
[Cheers]Ladies and gentlemen, let s say the obvious, I really meant, that is not Donald Trump story.
Just listen to me a second without doing or cheering.
Booing or cheering, his cynicism is undoubtedly his lack of empathy and compassion can be summed up in that phrase he is most proud of making famous, you re fired.
I m not joking.
Think about that.
Think about that.
Think about everything you learned as a child.
No matter where you were raised, how can there be pleasure in saying you re fired?
He is trying to tell us he cares about the middle class.
Give me a break.
That is a bunch of malarkey.
[Cheers]Whatever he thinks, whatever he thinks, and I mean this from the bottom of my heart, I know I m called middle-class Joe and in Washington, that is not meant as a compliment.
It means you are not sophisticated.
I know why we are strong, I know why we are held together, I know why we are united, it is because there has always been a growing middle class.
This guy does not have a clue about the middle class.
Not a clue.
[Cheers] Because folks, when the hill class middle class does well, the rich do very well and the poor have hope.
They have a way out.
He has no clue about what makes America great.
Actually, he has no clue period.
[Cheers]Not a clue!
Not a clue!
Not a clue!Folks, let me say, let me say something that has nothing to do with politics.
Let me talk about something that I m deadly serious about.
This is a complicated and uncertain world we live in.
The threats are two great too great, the times are too uncertain to elect Donald Trump as resident of the united States.
Let me finish, no major party, no major party nominee in the history of the station has ever known less or been less prepared to do with our national security deal with our national security.Our vice president is right.
This is not about politics anymore.
Trump is incompetent, and dangerously so.
He has no clue about the economy, national security, or anything else.
He doesn t understand what makes the nation function, even on the most basic level, and he certainly doesn t understand what makes it great.
The choice is clear, my fellow Americans.
Vote for a demagogue who peddles in hate and fear who is completely unprepared to occupy the Oval Office, or vote for the woman who knows what she is doing and will continue to KEEP America great.Watch Vice President Biden s incredible speech below:Featured image via video screen capture