How should the gay community feel about the Trump-hating actor, and Bill Clinton pal, Kevin Spacey, coming out as a gay man, as an excuse or distraction for attempting to molest a 14-year-old boy when he was 26-years -old?
Star Trek: Discovery actor Anthony Rapp claims Kevin Spacey got sexually aggressive toward him when he was only 14 years old, and Spacey has responded by apologizing and coming out as gay.Rapp told BuzzFeed News the incident occurred in 1986 the 2 were both on Broadway at the time.
Rapp says Spacey told him he was having a party and invited him.Rapp says he got bored and retreated to the bedroom to watch TV.
He said Spacey came in the room and appeared drunk, then picked me up like a groom picks up the bride over the threshold.
But I don t, like, squirm away initially, because I m like, What s going on?
And then he lays down on top of me.
Rapp says Spacey was holding him down as he struggled to get away, adding, He was trying to seduce me.
He eventually got away and left.Spacey, now 58, responded on social media, saying, I have a lot of respect and admiration for Anthony Rapp as an actor.
I am beyond horrified to hear his story.
I honestly do not remember the encounter, it would have been over 30 years ago.
But if I did behave as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior In response to the allegations, Spacey tweeted that he was beyond horrified to hear [Rapp s] story.
TMZ I honestly do not remember the encounter, it would have been over 30 years ago.
But if I did behave then as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior, and I am sorry for the feelings he describes having carried with him all these years.
Here is Kevin Spacey s Sorry, but I was drunk and I don t remember, but am truly sorry if I acted as a child predator and oh, by the way, I m gay, so can we just make that the news story?
[Our summary of the tweet]:pic.twitter.com/X6ybi5atr5 Kevin Spacey (@KevinSpacey) October 30, 2017Here are some of the reactions to Spacey s Apology/Coming out tweet:You don't remember the incident but remember being drunk?
Elizaeverafter (@Elizaeverafter) October 30, 2017Dude, you did this to a kid.
Screw you.
The Columbia Bugle (@ColumbiaBugle) October 30, 2017These comments praising Kevin Spacey are just disgusting.
What is wrong with you people excusing this behavior.
WTF Katica (@GOPPollAnalyst) October 30, 2017Is everyone on this thread making note of who this person is?
CEO of Allied Artists excusing sexual assault of a minor Lydia Snider (@LydiaSnider) October 30, 2017 In 2008, financier Jeffrey Epstein, whose friends included some of the most powerful people on the planet, was convicted of soliciting an under-age girl for prostitution.Spacey was on board Epstein s private jet with Bill Clinton when it flew from JFK Airport into the Azores before the former President and the actor enjoyed a tour of Africa.According to Fox News, Epstein, Allegedly had a team of traffickers who procured girls as young as 12 to service his friends on Orgy Island, an estate on Epstein s 72-acre island, called Little St. James, in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Bill Clinton took at least 26 trips on the Lolita Express, a luxury jet fitted out with beds where prominent elitists allegedly had sex with young girls, ditching his Secret Service detail for 5 of those trips.Clinton chose to continue his association with Epstein even after, according to the Alliance to Rescue Victims of Trafficking, everyone within his inner circles knew was a pedophile.
Epstein also reportedly had 21 different phone numbers for Bill Clinton.While there is no evidence to suggest Spacey engaged in criminal activity while on board Epstein s jet, his admission that he sexually assaulted a 14-year-old boy is sure to provoke further questions.ABC Action News Spacey, who has been famously private about his personal life, said that he now lives as a gay man which marked the first time the actor has made a public statement about his sexual orientation.
This story has encouraged me to address other things about my life, Spacey said in his tweet.
He continued that he has had relationships with both men and women, and added, I have loved and had romantic encounters with men throughout my life, and I choose now to live as a gay man.
Is Spacey suggesting that s it s normal behavior for all gay men to molest young boys?
Or is the Trump-hating actor attempting to convince people that it s okay for a 26-year-old man to molest a 14-year-old boy if he was drunk, or that if he already forgotten about it, we should too?So many questions remain, like for instance, will Prince Charles Un-Knight the alleged pedophile actor?https://twitter.com/KevinSpacey/status/743590498456088576Spacey took the opportunity to bash Trump while in France at an awards ceremony: Watch Spacey and unhinged Late Show s Stephen Colbert, who been allowing Donald Trump to live rent-free in his head for well over a year, bash Donald Trump: