Republicans and religious conservatives made a big show on Wednesday by criticizing current Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump over his comments on abortion.
The right treated Trump s declaration that under a regime where abortion is outlawed, women would have to be punished as if it were some crazy deviation from what the anti-choice right has been saying for years.In an interview with Business Insider, Secretary Hillary Clinton quickly dispensed with this utterly false notion.https://www.facebook.com/businessinsider/videos/10153507816369071/Clinton, the Democratic presidential frontrunner, said that Trump also revealed what many Republican lawmakers and candidates believe.
She cited efforts by GOP governors and state legislatures to curb access to abortion.
What s important here is that all the Republicans agree with him.
They all want to see women s rights eroded and for abortion to become illegal again, she said.
That s why so many state Republican governors and legislators are defunding Planned Parenthood and shutting down clinics that not only provide a safe abortion, but HIV testing, cancer screenings, and so much else.
Clinton added, So he tried to walk it back, but I think you have to take him at his word.
The official Republican Party Platform, passed at the 2012 Republican National Convention, is very clear on abortion.
The text calls for the passage of a so-called Human Life Amendment to the Constitution, which would classify every fetus at every stage as a full, human, life.
And as a result, any sort of abortion even for rape or incest would count as a murder.
But not only would doctors be subject to arrest, in this world view a murder could not happen without it being solicited by the mother.The end result is, that if abortion law is enacted the way the official Republican Party platform calls for it to be, women, and possibly their spouses, would at best be considered part of a criminal conspiracy to commit murder.Usually the media allows Republicans a pass on this, rarely asking what the logical conclusions in the real world would be of an outright ban on abortion.
As Secretary Clinton noted, the only mistake Trump made is in saying in front of cameras what conservative Republicans believe and talk about behind closed doors.Featured image via Facebook