Special Counsel Robert Mueller s anti-Trump witch hunt is dead, even if he doesn t realize it.
While his investigation stumbles onward, with life support provided by the biased media, from a legal perspective the viability of any criminal case that Mueller could possibly bring has been effectively gutted thanks to the news (suppressed for months by Mueller s team) that the FBI s key agent in both the Russia investigation and the Clinton email probe was an ardent Hillary supporter with an anti-Trump bias.Under federal law, a prosecutor is required to disclose exculpatory and impeachment information to criminal defendants and to seek a just result in every case.
Specifically, pursuant to Giglio v. United States:As a result, in any prosecution brought by Mueller against a Republican target, defense counsel would be entitled under the Constitution to all evidence in the government s possession relevant to exploring the apparent biases of FBI agent Peter Strzok and his animosity toward Trump and the Republican Party.
This, in and of itself, could be a case-killer because it is very unlikely that Mueller or the DOJ would want defense counsel poring through all the records and documents, emails, and texts in the DOJ s and Strzok s possession revealing the agent s biases since this could fatally undermine any other cases or investigations the agent has worked on such as the FBI s decision to recommend charging General Flynn with lying to federal agents even though Hillary Clinton s besties, Cheryl Mills and Huma Abedin, were given a free pass despite apparently doing the same thing.Significantly, the fatal damage done to Mueller s anti-Trump investigation does not only rest in the fact that defense counsel will be able to conduct an unlubricated prostate examination on the FBI s key agent at trial.
Instead, the real reason why Mueller will not risk a criminal trial is the lasting damage that would be done to the FBI s reputation by having Strzok s baggage brought into the daylight:For example, Jim Jordan skewered Chris Wray today on the Peter Strzok angle of investigation THIS is just the tip of the iceberg on what could be brought forward on this weasel:REMEMBER THAT STRZOK PLAYED A KEY ROLL IN ANALYZING THE TRUMP DOSSIER: Let s remember a couple of things about the dossier, he said.
The Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign, which we now know were one and the same, paid the law firm who paid Fusion GPS who paid Christopher Steele who then paid Russians to put together a report that we call a dossier full of all kinds of fake news, National Enquirer garbage and it s been reported that this dossier was all dressed up by the FBI, taken to the FISA court and presented as a legitimate intelligence document that it became the basis for a warrant to spy on Americans.
[ ] The easiest way to clear it up is tell us what s in that application and who took it there, Jordan said.
[ ]Jordan finished with this: Here s what I think I think Peter Strozk Mr. Super Agent at the FBI, I think he s the guy who took the application to the FISA court and if that happened, if this happened, if you have the FBI working with a campaign, the Democrats campaign, taking opposition research, dressing it all up and turning it into an intelligence document so they can take it to the FISA court so they can spy on the other campaign, if that happened, that is as wrong as it gets.
JAMES ROSEN HAS THIS:KABOOOOOM !!
Mueller Investigation CRUMBLES !
!First Strzok and Paige then Weissmann, then Rhee and NOW Bruce Ohr BUSTED w/ both hands in the Fake Trump Dossier cookie jar !
!#FireMueller #ShutItDown Investigating the Investigators pic.twitter.com/u9YgFa6421 STOCK MONSTER (@StockMonsterVIP) December 7, 2017Read more: Daily Caller