Speaking at the National Council of La Raza conference in Orlando on Saturday, Elizabeth Warren went after Donald Trump and completely desecrated him in a fiery speech.Addressing the crowd at the national conference of the largest Hispanic advocacy organization, the Massachusetts senator stressed the importance of economic issues as they pertain to the Hispanic community and denounced Trump s racist rhetoric.
We believe that diversity has made this country strong, Warren said.
And racism, sexism, homophobia, hatred, injustice, and bigotry have no place here.
We will never build Donald Trump s stupid wall, she said to a standing ovation.Warren said that come hell or high water, Clinton must win this election in November.
Hillary Clinton must be the next President of the United States, and Tim Kaine must be the next Vice President of the United States, Warren said.
Not can , not should , we must make them.
Hillary Clinton must be the next President of the United States, and Tim Kaine must be the next Vice President of the United States, Warren said.
Not can , not should , we must make them.
Warren, who joked that I haven t been this excited to come to Orlando since Harry Potter arrived, also stressed the importance of healthcare during her 20-minute speech, noting that one in four Latinos have no health care.
I know how hard every single one of you is working, sometimes we ve got to stop and we ve got to remind ourselves what it is that we re working for, Warren said.
Why we get up in the mornings and why we fight.
It is time to come down hard on predatory practices that allow financial institutions to systematically strip wealth out of Latino communities, and we are ready to fight for it.
She also demanded reforms in drug laws and criminal sentencing as well as immediate action on climate change, in addition to her focus on economic issues.
We believe that no one should work full-time and still live in poverty, Warren said.
Latino workers earn less than white workers and African-American workers.
That means raise the minimum wage, enforce overtime pay, pass sick leave and family leave and schedules that work.
Warren then called out the Republican nominee by name.
I have a few things to say that will not fit into 140 characters on Twitter, she said, calling Trump a weak, thin-skinned man , small, insecure, money-grubbing and A man who will never be president of the United States.
She spoke of the heart wrenching story of a Hispanic man who testified during a Senate hearing on the 2008 mortgage crisis who told how he had struggled not to cry when he told his daughters that they were going to lose their home.
She then contrasted his story with that of the bigoted billionaire who said he was excited for the real estate market to crash.
He was drooling over the idea of a housing meltdown because it meant he could buy up more properties on the cheap.
What kind of a man does that?
she asked.The senator concluded that this election will decide what kind of a people we are and what kind of a country we want to build.
Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images