Throughout the campaign, many have tried defending Trump by saying that he was once a Democrat, so he must secretly be a liberal, or something.
Well, Trump s pick for his cabinet are among the most conservative possible, and his pick for Labor Secretary is not only ber socially conservative, he would probably opt for slave labor if it was an option.Andy Puzder is the CEO of Carl s Jr. and Hardee s you know, that company that has family values ads like this one:We don t know if it s a shared love for scantily clad women in semi-pornographic settings that drew Donald Trump to Puzder, but Trump is considering him as Labor Secretary and that s very bad news for labor.In May, Pudzer penned a petulant op-ed in which he said he would replace all his employees with robots if Congress raised the minimum wage.
That s right, the so-called populist President Elect wants someone in charge of labor who believes that if you can t dramatically underpay employees, then why have employees at all.
Pudzer s salary is upwards of $5 million a year.
His employees make somewhere around double the poverty level, assuming they are not parents and are working full time.Oh, it gets worse, a lot worse.
Puzder, like many of Trump s picks, is painfully (to the nation) socially conservative.
Puzder, in his previous life, was a trial lawyer and as a trial lawyer, he wrote one of the most restrictive anti-abortion laws of that time.Puzder isn t completely in lock-step with the isolationist Trump, though.
He does support free trade.
Puzder s views run contrary to the key part of Trump s platform.
Pudzer is for immigration reform, but it sort of seems to depend on who s in office.
Pudzer loves the cheap labor that immigrants can provide, but not if President Obama is behind it.Immigration reform requires legislative action, not an executive mandate.
On that point, last week, numerous business executives, political leaders and I sent a letter to the Republican members of Congress imploring them to reform our broken immigration system.
The letter encourages Congress to pass legislation that discourages the rising tide of illegal immigration while fixing the unnecessary obstacles that send talented individuals elsewhere and make it harder for American companies to compete, grow and create jobs for American workers.
Source: Real Clear PoliticsRegardless, Trump is sending a definite message to the nation, which is that his voters and the working people of America don t matter at all.
Trump isn t going to save jobs, but he could help lower wages and Puzder is the perfect person to help do that.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images