Says the guy who was a Jr.
Senator and Community Organizer prior to becoming President of the United States.
And who can forget our selfie President?And then there s the famous Nelson Mandela funeral selfie:President Obama skewered Donald Trump on Friday, warning that the Republicans presumptive nominee isn t serious enough for the presidency, his plans aren t plausible, and his ideas haven t been vetted sufficiently.Let s not forget that when Obama was living in his own little narcissistic world and making a contribution to absolutely no-one Trump was busy creating jobs.Obama continued: He has a long record that needs to be examined.
And I think it s important for us ot take seriously the statements he s made in the past, Obama said.
We are in serious times and this is a really serious job.
This is not entertainment.
This is not a reality show.
These were Obama s first extended comments about Trump since the New York mogul cemented his role as the presumptive GOP nominee on Tuesday night.
He spoke in the White House briefing room, using remarks on the economy and a crackdown on tax evasion as an opportunity to air his views.
It was clear he expected questions about Trump, and intended to use the appearance to discuss the new phase of the election.
This is a contest for the presidency of the United States and what that means is that every candidate, every nominee needs to be subject to exacting standards and genuine scrutiny, he said.Via: Dallas Morning NewsSpeaking of scrutiny :Here is a Breitbart News top ten list of things that Obama has refused to release (a complete list would fill volumes):10.
State senate papers.
In the 2008 primary, Obama criticized Hillary Clinton for not releasing papers from her eight years as First Lady but failed to produce any papers from his eight years in Springfield.
They could have been thrown out, he said.9.
Academic transcripts.
His supposed academic brilliance was a major selling point, but Obama (by his own admission) was a mediocre student.
His GPA at Occidental was a B-plus at best, and his entering class at Columbia was weak.
Can he prove his merit?8.
Book proposal.
Obama s literary agent claimed he was born in Kenya for sixteen years.
His original book proposal exists biographer David Maraniss refers to it and seems to have embellished other key details of his life.
Yet it has never been released.7.
Medical records.
In 2000, and again (briefly) in 2008, GOP presidential candidate Sen. John McCain released thousands of pages of his medical records.
Obama, who had abused drugs and continued smoking, merely provided a one-page doctor s note.6.
Small-dollar donors.
In 2008, the McCain campaign released the names of donors who had contributed less than $200, though it was not required to do so.
But the Obama campaign refused, amidst accusations it had accepted illegal foreign contributions.5.
The Khalidi tape.
In 2003, Obama attended a party for his good friend, the radical Palestinian academic Rashid Khalidi.
The event featured incendiary anti-Israel rhetoric.
The LA Times broke the story, but has refused to release the tape and so has Obama.4.
The real White House guest list.
Touting its transparency, the Obama White House released its guest logs but kept many visits secret, and moved meetings with lobbyists off-site.
It also refused to confirm the identities of visitors like Bertha Lewis of ACORN.3.
Countless FOIA requests.
The Obama administration has been described as the worst ever in complying with Freedom of Information Act requests for documents.
It has also punished whistleblowers like David Walpin, who exposed cronyism in Americorps.2.
Health reform negotiations.
Candidate Obama promised that health care reform negotiations would be televised on C-SPAN.
Instead, there were back-room deals worth millions with lobbyists and legislators the details of which are only beginning to emerge.1.
Fast and Furious documents.
After months of stonewalling Congress, Attorney General Eric Holder asked President Obama to use executive privilege to conceal thousands of documents related to the deadly scandal and Obama did just that.In addition to the above, Obama and his campaign have lied about many facts about his past his membership in the New Party; his extensive connections with ACORN; and his continued relationship with domestic terrorist Bill Ayers and Jeremiah Wright, among other examples.
Obama s own memoir is filled with fabrications.
And now he is lying about his opponent s honorable record in business.
He and the media have no shame.And oh yeah one more thing that we almost forgot: