The GOP tent continues to get smaller as the first House Republican has decided to vote for Hillary Clinton against the divisive Donald Trump.New York GOP Rep. Richard Hanna, unlike many of his Republican colleagues, has a conscience.
Therefore, he can t hold his nose and support the Republican nominee.Many Republicans continue to support Trump even though he has made blatantly racist comments and preached hate on the campaign trail.
But Hanna has had enough.In an open letter written for Syracuse.com, Hanna ripped Trump:Months ago I publicly said I could never support Trump.
My reasons were simple and personal.
I found him profoundly offensive and narcissistic but as much as anything, a world-class panderer, anything but a leader.
Little more than a changing mirror of those he speaks to.
I never expect to agree with whoever is president, but at a minimum the president needs to consistently display those qualities I have preached to my two children: kindness, honesty, dignity, compassion and respect.I do not expect perfection, but I do require more than the embodiment of at least a short list of the seven deadly sins.Then Hanna slammed the Republican Party for alienating a large swath of Americans while becoming incapable of nominating a candidate who is electable:I have long held the belief that the Republican Party is becoming increasingly less capable of nominating a person who is electable as president.
The primary process is so geared toward the party s political base, which ignores the fact that we have largely alienated women, Hispanics, the LGBT community, young voters and many others in general.Hanna went on to call Trump deeply flawed and blasted him for the way he has treated John McCain and for the way he is treating Humayun Khan s family now.
Hanna is ashamed that his party continues to still support Trump even though he is insulting military families and veterans across the country.And that why he is throwing his support and most importantly, his vote -to Hillary Clinton.Secretary Clinton has issues that depending on where one stands can be viewed as great or small.
But she stands and has stood for causes bigger than herself for a lifetime.
That matters.
Mrs. Clinton has promoted many of the issues I have been committed to over the years including expanding education and supporting women s health care.While I disagree with her on many issues, I will vote for Mrs. Clinton.
I will be hopeful and resolute in my belief that being a good American who loves his country is far more important than parties or winning and losing.
I trust she can lead.
All Republicans may not like the direction, but they can live to win or lose another day with a real candidate.
Our response to the public s anger and the need to rebuild requires complex solutions, experience, knowledge and balance.
Not bumper sticker slogans that pander to our disappointment, fear and hate.Now that one Republican in Congress has the balls to vote for Hillary in rejection of Trump, how many others will do the same?Featured image via Sara D. Davis/Getty Images