Apparently breaking the law and scamming the government is excusable if you can conveniently blame discrimination.
And when the media is ignoring your illegal activity, who s stopping you from getting away with anything?
After being detained for bank fraud charges on Monday, Imran Awan s attorney recently released a statement blaming islamophobia and the ultra right-wing media :This Pakistani family was under criminal investigation by the U.S. Capitol Police for abusing their access to the House of Representatives information technology (IT) system.
Abid, Imran and Jamal Awan accessed Congressmen and Congress people s computer networks unauthorized and engaged in a myriad of other questionable schemes besides allegedly placing ghost employees on the congressional payroll.Capitol Police revoked the Awans access to the congressional IT system in February 2017 after a major data breach was detected.
Their access had allowed them to read emails and files of dozens of members, including many serving on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.Imran Awan, his wife Hina, and brothers Abid and Jamal collectively netted more than $4 million in salary as IT administrators for House Democrats between 2009 and 2017.
Yet the absence of signs of wealth displayed among them raise questions.
Was the money sent overseas or did something other than paychecks motivate their actions?
Both Imran and his wife were traveling to Pakistan earlier this week carrying $12,000.
However, Imran was arrested before he could board the plane.Today, Awan s attorney released a statement claiming the attacks on Mr. Awan and his family began as part of a frenzy of anti-Muslim bigotry in the literal heart of our democracy, the House of Representatives.
He goes on by saying that they have had utterly unsupported, outlandish, and slanderous statements targeting Mr. Awan coming not just from the ultra-right-wing pizzagate media but from sitting members of Congress.
The attorney claims the couple were traveling to see their family for the first time in months after being abruptly and unjustly fired.
Read more: The Gateway Pundit