People believe what they want to believe.
When someone tells you they can solve your financial woes with a simple plan, you want to believe them.
Donald Trump knew this and took advantage of people when they were at their most vulnerable.
He promised a way to be successful, all while just simply making himself wealthy in the mean time.Well, guess what?
He s finally being called out on his fraudulent scheme of Trump University and is even going to court over it.Also calling Donald Trump out for the scam artist that he is, is Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton.Hillary went for the jugular and with good merit, stating: Well today we are learning about another scam, the so-called Trump University.
The New York Attorney General is suing Donald Trump for fraud.
And his own employees testified, I want you to hear this, his own employees testified that Trump U, you can t make this up, that Trump U was a fraudulent scheme where Donald Trump enriched himself at the expense of hardworking people Also adding: Trump and his employees took advantage of vulnerable Americans encouraging them to max out their credit cards, empty their retirement savings, destroy their financial futures all while making promises they knew were false from the beginning.
This is just more evidence that Donald Trump himself is a fraud.
He is trying to scam America the way he scammed all those people at Trump U.
Concluding: It is important that we recognize what he has done because that is usually a pretty good indicator of what he will do.
And on issue after issue, we see someone who is unqualified and unfit to be President of the United States.
He is absolutely unfit to be president.
He has no policy experience, no diplomatic experience, no experience whatsoever except for being the true scam artist that he is.
He should be condemned, not praised, and we need to make sure he is defeated this November.
Watch Hillary here:Trump himself is a fraud.He s trying to scam America the way he scammed all those people at Trump University.https://t.co/yMt4mGLwYO Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) June 1, 2016Featured Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images