We ve long been suspicious of Russian meddling in our political process, with intelligence officials going so far as to say they re confident they know Russia hacked various email systems, including that of the DNC.
With Trump s election, Russia sees a huge victory as their puppet prepares to take office.One Russian governor, Viktor Nazarov, actually, literally said, according to CBS News: It turns out that United Russia won the elections in America.
United Russia is Putin s political party, and not Russia itself.
Regardless, that is still a bold proclamation to make, whether he s talking about Putin meddling or just a U.S. puppet government for Putin to use to strengthen Russia.
Russia suffers from a crippled economy thanks to sanctions, and they seem to see us as their ticket out of all that.It s more likely that see us as their ticket to restored power so they re once again on equal footing with us.
Hillary wouldn t have done that the Democrats have taken a strong line against Russia, as have most Republicans.
With the bromance that exists between Trump and Putin, though, Russia probably hopes that Congress will give in to their new leader.Putin, of course, denies that Russia did anything at all with our electoral process despite NSA claims that he definitely did.
He claimed conspiracy theory, saying that the American left was using this theory as a distraction.
If his governors and other officials can t keep from saying that Russia was the big winner in our elections, though, then what are we really to think?As Boris Zilberman, an expert on Russia, said: It s not that Putin is against the Democratic Party.
He s more against the United States and (for) whatever may push Russian interests.
How convenient for Putin, then, that his best American buddy, Trump, got elected.
It s sickening to think that Russia might have been the big winner of our elections, but it s hard to ignore Russian officials who say so.Featured image via Greg Baker-Pool/Getty Images and Joe Raedle/Getty Images