It didn t take long for President Trump to tweet his displeasure to NFL player Marshawn Lynch for his protest against our national anthem last weekend.
Lynch stood for the Mexican national anthem but sat out the US national anthem (see below)!
What a jack wagon!President Trump tweeted: OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON MARSHAWN LYNCH: The NFL just keeps killing the goose that laid the golden egg First of all, they play in Mexico?
Are they trying to cultivate fans there now?
They might have more luck filling the stadiums.And we still have players kneeling during our national anthem They re killing any chance to redeem themselves, one game at a time.Idiotic Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch has pulled some stunts during this season but the one below takes the cake:Marshawn Lynch sits during the US national anthem, stands for Mexican anyhem pic.twitter.com/8wdaKprEki Ben Volin (@BenVolin) November 19, 2017Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch sat during most of U.S. anthem and stood for the Mexican anthem before their game against the Patriots at Azteca Stadium in Mexico City.Mexican national anthem being sung on field at Estadio Azteca.
And throughout the crowd.
Marshawn Lynch rose for it.
pic.twitter.com/Pz4GoEfyuw Michael Gehlken (@GehlkenNFL) November 19, 2017Lynch has not stood for the national anthem since returning from retirement this season.OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE ANTICS OF MARSHAWN LYNCH: NATIONAL ANTHEM KNEELER Marshawn Lynch Ejected From Raiders Game For Leaving Sideline to Attack Ref [Video]NFL anthem kneeler Marshawn Lynch ran onto the field to jump into a fight that broke out after a play.
He attacked a ref on the field and was promptly ejected.
Slow motion video below shows him attacking the ref after running onto the field.
No respect!nickr83: Tensions flare in Oakland.
#TNF #KCvsOAK CBS Thursday Night Football: Kansas City https://t.co/DDAQV3HyiY pic.twitter.com/jvVsmiXBuu FanSportsClips (@FanSportsClips) October 20, 2017Here he is running onto the filed from the sideline:silverhunt: Beast mode!!
CBS Thursday Night Football: Kansas City Chiefs at Oakland Raiders https://t.co/lMUBGz02dH pic.twitter.com/9Mahc5vHhd FanSportsClips (@FanSportsClips) October 20, 2017Lynch is tossed from the game after his embarrassing attack on a ref after running onto the field:nickr83: #BeastMode gets ejected.
#TNF #KCvsOAK CBS Thursday Night Football: Kansas City Ch https://t.co/GqTeMzXp7K pic.twitter.com/6D8ioiK7y6 FanSportsClips (@FanSportsClips) October 20, 2017OUR RECENT REPORT ON LYNCH: when we thought the NFL might return to focusing on playing football and that maybe, just maybe, the players would have time to reflect, and to understand the amazing gift they ve been given to be able to live in the greatest nation on earth along comes Marshawn Lynch Oakland Raiders running back Marshawn Lynch sat during the national anthem over the weekend, ahead of a Saturday preseason game against the Arizona Cardinals, the AP reports.The NFL player was photographed on top of an orange cooler with a banana in Glendale, Ariz.Last year, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sat and kneeled during the national anthem and protested police brutality.Lynch previously backed Kaepernick, telling comedian Conan O Brien in September 2016, I d rather see him take a knee than stand up, put his hands up and get murdered.
If you re really not racist then you won t see what he done, what he s doing, as a threat to America, but just addressing a problem that we have, Lynch said at the time.Raiders coach Jack Del Rio says he didn t know about Lynch s plans ahead of the game, according to NFL.com.
On Marshawn, talked to Marshawn trying to make sure we re on the same page, the coach said.
He said, This is something I ve done for 11 years.
It s not a form of anything other than me being myself.
I said, So you understand how I feel, I very strongly believe in standing for the national anthem.
But I m going to respect you as a man, you do your thing.
We ll do ours.
It s a non-issue for me.
Via: Fox News