After 126 years of endorsing Republican candidates for President, the Arizona Republic decided that they could not, in good conscience, endorse Donald Trump.
Arizona is a solid red state with a solid red and oftentimes nutty conservative government, and some of the people of the state are so angry with the Republic for endorsing Hillary that the paper has lost subscribers and is now receiving death threats.Phil Boas, who s in charge of the Republic s editorial page, said: Well, it s been crazy around here.
We re getting a lot of reaction both locally and national.
I don t believe true readers of the editorial page are surprised by all this at all, because over the past year we have been writing scathing, scalding articles about Donald Trump.
There may be some true readers of the editorial page who are angry, but it s just as likely that these are primarily Trumpkins and others who hate Hillary with a passion, and are pissed off that their paper has betrayed them like this.
Trumpkins are known for advocating violence against anyone who disagrees with their chosen god, and Trump himself eggs them on.Trumpkins sent death threats to delegates who didn t want to support Trump at the RNC.
The chairman of Colorado s Republican Party was told to go kill himself, and to hide his family and pray he made it all the way to Cleveland.
A Jewish writer for The Huffington Post got death threats and wishes after calling Trump out for an anti-Semitic tweet.Trump and his loyal subjects have normalized this kind of behavior.
Unfortunately, this behavior can lead to domestic terrorism, and anyone who carries out these threats would be considered domestic terrorists.Boas, and the Republic, are rightfully concerned about Trump s strong desire to destroy the free press because he can t take criticism.
It s also his misogyny, racism, lack of presidential temperament and lack of any real policy proposals that pushed the Republic to endorse Hillary.
Boas says the paper is feeling the weight of our history during this election cycle.The Republic may have endorsed the GOP candidate had it been Marco Rubio or Jeb Bush candidates that were actually respectful, respectable and, in comparison to Trump, responsible.
But they didn t, so the Republic stands by its decision to endorse Hillary, along with many other papers that have broken with decades of tradition.
Trump is too distasteful for them, and his fans are just as bad.Featured image by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images