Outraged protesters have taken to the streets of Baton Rouge, Lousiana following the shooting death of Alton Sterling.
Early Tuesday morning, the 37-year-old African-American man was gunned down by police officers while they had him pinned to the ground.
Video taken by witnesses shows Sterling being held down while he pleads with officers.
You can hear one of the officers yell, You fucking move, I swear to God, and then shots ring out.
*Trigger warning*37-year-old #AltonSterling shot and killed by a Baton Rouge police officer.
pic.twitter.com/xJRm500its Philip Lewis (@Phil_Lewis_) July 6, 2016In that horrifying instant, Sterling became the 114th black man to die at the hands of law enforcement so far this year, according to a Washington Post investigation.
It should also be noted that this number is just the deaths that we know of, the true number could be even higher still.
With only 186 days having passed in 2016, this means that police officers in the United States are killing African-American men at a rate of almost one a day.Abdul Muflahi owns the Triple S Food Mart that Sterling was killed in front of and took the video of the killing, which has now gone viral.
Although authorities have not confirmed whether or not the gun they spoke of in the video was recovered, Muflahi said that they did find one in his pocket.
However, the witness insists that Sterling s hands never went anywhere near his pockets or the gun at any point during the struggle.Muflahi added that the responding officers were really aggressive with him from the start.
Mignon Chambers, Sterling s sister, said that her brother would often sell CD s in front of Muflahi s store.The police shooting of yet another black man has once again sparked protests, an all too familiar scenario in America.
The Advocate s Bryn Stole was on the scene as the protests were taking place.
He reported that protesters were chanting Black Lives Matter and called for Wednesday morning protests in front of Baton Rouge City Hall.Protestors now parking in street to block traffic, raising fiats & chanting black lives matter #AltonSterling pic.twitter.com/aGu463ZTN4 Bryn Stole (@BrynStole) July 6, 2016As some people leave, lots more come.
A younger crowd now outside where #AltonSterling was shot about 24 hours ago pic.twitter.com/5lX34UW8Z2 Bryn Stole (@BrynStole) July 6, 2016Traffic moving again, as protestors in street yell at drivers to come down to Baton Rouge city hall at 8am tomorrow.
pic.twitter.com/mP8JapS0jE Bryn Stole (@BrynStole) July 6, 2016Featured image via Twitter