This Donald Trump supporter will be ringing in the new year with egg on his face.Townhall columnist and retired Army Colonel Kurt Schlichter took to Twitter on Wednesday to whine about the United Nations resolution condemning Israeli settlements on Palestinian land.In fact, Schlichter s Twitter feed is full of complaints about the resolution even though America has supported such condemnations before and has always condemned Israeli settlements beyond their national boundaries.
The Israelis have killed men, women, and children in the Gaza strip to make this expansion possible with little regard for human rights.
Some Israeli lawmakers are even calling for committing genocide against the Palestinians.
It should also be noted that the Israeli settlements are preventing peace talks from moving forward because it s useless to talk about a two-state solution when Israel is busy gobbling up land that belongs to the Palestinians.Schlichter thinks that those who condemn Israel are like the Jews who were forced to help the Nazis at Auschwitz.If you are Jewish and supporting Barack Obama and John Kerry, well, you would have made a fine helper at Auschwitz.
Kurt Schlichter (@KurtSchlichter) December 28, 2016Well, that didn t sit well with the Auschwitz Memorial Museum, so they responded to Schlichter s post.The tragedy of prisoners of Auschwitz & their complicated moral dilemmas which today we can hardly comprehend should not be instrumentalized https://t.co/lGYSxQ4a54 Auschwitz Memorial (@AuschwitzMuseum) December 28, 2016Schlichter replied by suggesting his knowledge of the Holocaust and the Jewish people is superior to that of the Auschwitz Memorial Museum.Your opinion is important and deserves respectful attention.
However, I disagree, respectfully, with your conclusion here.
@AuschwitzMuseum Kurt Schlichter (@KurtSchlichter) December 28, 2016And even Schlichter s followers ripped him a new one for it.
@KurtSchlichter if an Auschwitz memorial foundation thinks you re scum, might want to rethink your life decisions.
As a therapist, I d agree Kelly (@kellydraper) December 28, 2016How does it feel to get called out by the people at the official Auschwitz Memorial, you hate-mongering low-life dirtbag?
@KurtSchlichter Charles Johnson (@Green_Footballs) December 29, 2016@KurtSchlichter this is a horrible thing to say.
Respectfully 1 can be very pro Israel and want to explore two state sol and end to violence Gabby Revilla Lugo (@gabbyrevlugo) December 28, 2016@KurtSchlichter: Equating a legitimate policy argument over US policy toward Israel to genocide is despicable.
Suzanne Trimel (@STrimel) December 29, 2016@KurtSchlichter You have a greater grasp of Auschwitz than @AuschwitzMuseum do you?
I disagree, disrespectfully, with your conclusion here.
Danny Wallace (@dannywallace) December 28, 2016@KurtSchlichter seriously?
Back down and apologize, you are wrong here.
@AuschwitzMuseum Andrew Kornblatt (@akornblatt) December 28, 2016@KurtSchlichter @akornblatt When the fucking Auschwitz memorial says you re being tasteless, you need to take a step back and examine.
Lain Iwakura Wannabe (@PubliusShepard) December 29, 2016@KurtSchlichter @AuschwitzMuseum Kurt I think the Auschwitz Museum might just know better than you on this one.
em dash (@em_dash01) December 28, 2016Schlichter goes on to accuse people of supporting policies that keep Jews from praying at holy sites like the Western Wall.
But Jews already pray at the Western Wall and are not being barred from doing so.
A two-state solution would not change that, nor does the United Nation resolution condemning the continued construction of settlements.
Nobody is arguing that Israel doesn t have the right to exist, but what Israel is doing to the Palestinian people is inexcusable and is only inflaming the Middle East.
The United States cannot afford to sacrifice more blood and treasure fighting the entire Muslim world but that s what Israel is pushing for by continuing to build settlements that make peace impossible.Featured image via screenshot