According to Donald Trump, he loves veterans.
At least that s what he keeps telling people.
And when you re running in an election for a party that constantly uses the service of men and women and uniform as political props, you re going to tout the line that you love veterans as much as possible.
However, actions speak louder than words, and Trump apparently doesn t realize that people actually remember the actions he took back in 1991 when he tried to remove veterans from 5th Avenue in New York City.
You see, Trump Tower is on 5th Avenue, and those gosh darn veterans trying to make a living as vendors were just too unsightly for Trump to have anywhere near his precious building.In a letter Trump wrote to the New York state Assembly in 1991, it said: While disabled veterans should be given every opportunity to earn a living, is it fair to do so to the detriment of the city as a whole or its tax paying citizens and businesses?
Do we allow Fifth Avenue, one of the world s finest and most luxurious shopping districts, to be turned into an outdoor flea market, clogging and seriously downgrading the area?
And then again to NYC Mayor Mike Bloomberg in 2004: Whether they are veterans or not, they [the vendors] should not be allowed to sell on this most important and prestigious shopping street he image of New York City will suffer I hope you can stop this very deplorable situation before it is too late.
And in case that s not bad enough for you, he also wanted to make sure no one sat down near his building that may have taken away from the beautiful ambience.
According to the New York Times he had large planters placed on benches.
He said in 1984: We have had tremendous difficulties with respect to the bench drug addicts, vagrants, et cetera have come to the atrium in large numbers.
Additionally, all sorts of horrors had been taking place that effectively ruined the beautiful ambience of the space which everyone loves so much.
To be blunt, Donald Trump is exactly what s wrong with the United States of America, and for him to even remotely be coming close to gaining the Republican nomination for president is outright horrifying.
He only loves veterans when it s politically convenient for him to do so.
To pander to a bunch of folks who are apparently so dumb to think he would actually make a decent president.
His actions in the past with veterans only prove the continuing line that Trump is only out for himself and what s best for Trump.
He doesn t want America to be great, because guess what, America is already pretty damn great.
Trump wants Trump to be great, and he wants to stroke his ego inside the Oval Office.
Smart Americans know better, and we need to make sure he stays as far away from the White House as possible.Featured image: Flickr/Wikimedia/photoshop