For the third time in a row, Trump will head down to Florida for the weekend because he can t stand the White House.
However, it seems that this particular weekend vacay is different: It s a rally at Orlando International Airport, similar to the ones he held during his campaign.
He s even got a neat little graphic on his Twitter announcement, which also reads the way the ads for his campaign stops read:Join me in Florida this Saturday at 5pm for a rally at the Orlando-Melbourne International Airport!
Tickets: https://t.co/9jDy1tYkgE pic.twitter.com/GDhO6GGxwt Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017Now, we already knew that Trump s advisers were trying to figure out a way to allow him to keep holding rallies so he could stroke his ego while in office.
That s what his so-called Thank-You tour was all about.
However, it seems that this one is a little different.
White House press who ve spoken to Spicer about it are saying the following:Spicer says Trump rally in FL Saturday is a campaign event.
So the 2020 campaign has begun.
Jim Acosta (@Acosta) February 15, 2017Spicer on POTUS event on Saturday in FL: It s being run by the campaign Zeke Miller (@ZekeJMiller) February 15, 2017It s a campaign event, and it s being paid for by the campaign, although speculation says otherwise:This means that Trump s campaign must pay some of the costs for Air Force One, travel and lodging for aides.
Wanna bet they don t do that?
https://t.co/jQx0Gz0gXt Dan Pfeiffer (@danpfeiffer) February 15, 2017Here s more:White House referring Qs about @realDonaldTrump FL rally to the president s campaign.Trump is having a campaign rally 1 month into term Mike Memoli (@mikememoli) February 15, 2017What?President Trump will make it all the way to his 30th day in office before having a campaign event pic.twitter.com/KrnRuOUwvr Mark Berman (@markberman) February 15, 2017Yeah.
He filed a letter with the Federal Election Commission saying he meets the candidacy threshold for 2020 on the day he was inaugurated, and now he s holding campaign events.
And Spicer is saying the campaign will pay for them.
The campaign will pay for use of Air Force One and lodging for the Secret Service and all his aides?
Sure.But more than that, this is another way for him to avoid real work, and possibly to distract from the scandals mounting in the White House.
He hates the business of being the president because he can t do what he wants, when he wants and how he wants.
He can t be a dictator, and he can t tolerate people actually telling him he s wrong.
But he can hold these rallies full of cheering people who admire him and hold him up as a god who s right about everything.This isn t normal.
This is terrifying.Featured image by Mark Wallheiser via Getty Images