While Trump crows about all the unscientific, self-selecting online polls that were rigged by his followers, the scientific polls with credibility are telling a very different post-debate story.
One particular poll, which NBC conducted starting from the end of the debate on Sept. 26 into Sept. 27, shows Trump did so poorly that more people said neither candidate won than said Trump won.According to that poll, 52 percent of likely voters said Hillary won.
21 percent said Trump won, and 26 percent said neither candidate won.Image via NBC NewsOuch.
Ouch ouch ouch.
For someone who was only able to speak for 38 percent of the time, compared to Trump s 62 percent (and constant Just shut up because I am God interruptions), poll numbers like that are pretty astonishing.It s about as bad as when candidates finish worse than none of these candidates at the ballot box.
Basically, there is nobody except the Trumpkins who believes Trump did anything of value Monday night.
Furthermore, just 26 percent of Republican respondents said that the debate changed their opinion of Trump for the better.
That s a pretty sorry number compared to 50 percent of Democratic respondents saying their opinion of Hillary changed for the better.Some Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill were disappointed in Trump and his performance, too.
They wanted him to attack Hillary over the dead horse of an email scandal they re so sure makes her unfit to lead the country, and he didn t. Others, however, were frustrated with his inability to put forth succinct talking points: I wish that he d say something, stick with it, and then move on to something else instead of saying the same thing over and over and over, [Arizona Rep. Matt] Salmon said in an interview Tuesday without giving specific examples.
It was just throughout the entire debate.'
Anyone who tries to read a complete transcript of the debate will have the same frustration, if not worse.
Trump literally cannot stick to the point, rambles on, talks in circles, etc., and Hillary wiped the floor with him in part because of that.
The rest of it well, she s eminently qualified and he isn t, and she proved it.The NBC poll was conducted online among a sample of 7,541 likely voters, culled from the 3 million adults who take surveys on SurveyMonkey every day.
The margin of error is 1.6 percent, so Trump isn t even tied with neither, for second place.
He finished dead last.Featured image by Drew Angerer/Getty Images