(Reuters) - Below are people mentioned as contenders for senior roles as U.S. President-elect Donald Trump works to form his administration before taking office on Jan. 20, according to Reuters sources and media reports.
Trump has already named a number of people for other top jobs in his administration.
Mitt Romney, 2012 Republican presidential nominee and former Massachusetts governor Rudy Giuliani, Republican former mayor of New York City Bob Corker, Republican U.S. senator from Tennessee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee David Petraeus, retired general and former CIA director who pleaded guilty to mishandling classified information that he shared with his biographer, who he was having an affair with Jon Huntsman, former Republican Utah governor and ambassador to China under President Barack Obama, ran for Republican presidential nomination in 2012 James Stavridis, retired Navy admiral John Bolton, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations under President George W. Bush, foreign policy adviser to 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney Rex Tillerson, president and chief executive officer of Exxon Mobil Joe Manchin, Democratic U.S. senator for West Virginia Dana Rohrabacher, Republican U.S. representative of California and senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Alan Mulally, a former CEO at Ford and a former executive vice president at Boeing Kevin Cramer, Republican U.S. representative from North Dakota Robert Grady, venture capitalist, partner in private equity firm Gryphon Investors Heidi Heitkamp, Democratic U.S. senator from North Dakota Joe Manchin, Democratic U.S. senator from West Virginia Gary Cohn, president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc Larry Nichols, co-founder of Devon Energy Corp James Connaughton, CEO of Nautilus Data Technologies and a former environmental adviser to President George W. Bush Rick Perry, Republican former Texas governor Forrest Lucas, founder of oil products company Lucas Oil Heidi Heitkamp, Democratic U.S. senator from North Dakota Robert Grady, venture capitalist, partner in Gryphon Investors Cathy McMorris Rodgers, U.S. representative from Washington state and House Republican Conference chair Sarah Palin, former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee Jan Brewer, former Republican Arizona governor Mary Fallin, Republican Oklahoma governor Ray Washburne, CEO of investment company Charter Holdings Navy Admiral Mike Rogers, director of the National Security Agency Ronald Burgess, retired U.S. Army lieutenant general and former Defense Intelligence Agency chief Robert Cardillo, director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Pete Hoekstra, Republican former U.S. representative from Michigan Rudy Giuliani, Republican former mayor of New York Debra Wong Yang, former U.S. attorney for California’s Central District, appointed by former President George W. Bush Ralph Ferrara, a securities attorney at law firm Proskauer Rose LLP Paul Atkins, a Republican former SEC commissioner who is heading Trump’s transition team for independent financial regulatory agencies, including the SEC Daniel Gallagher, Republican former SEC commissioner John Allison, a former CEO of regional bank BB&T Corp and former CEO of the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank Paul Atkins, Republican former SEC commissioner Thomas Hoenig, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp vice chairman Dan DiMicco, former CEO of steel producer Nucor Corp Robert Lighthizer, a Washington trade attorney and former deputy U.S. trade representative during the Republican Reagan administration Andrew Puzder, CEO of CKE Restaurants [APOLOT.UL] Lou Barletta, Republican U.S. representative from Pennsylvania Victoria Lipnic, U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission member and former Labor Department official during the George W. Bush administration Gary Cohn, Goldman Sachs Group Inc president Mick Mulvaney, Republican U.S. representative from South Carolina David Malpass, former chief economist with investment bank Bear Stearns and a senior Trump adviser who also served in the Ronald Reagan and George H.W.
Bush presidential administrations Scott Brown, former Republican U.S. senator from Massachusetts Sarah Palin, former Alaska governor Jeff Miller, former Republican U.S. representative from Florida who was chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee The Trump transition team confirmed the president-elect would choose from a list of 21 names he drew up during his campaign, including Republican U.S.
Senator Mike Lee of Utah and William Pryor, a federal judge with the 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals.