On Sunday, thousands of protesters came together for the annual pro-immigration march in downtown Los Angeles, but this year it was as much an anti-Trump rally as it was an immigrant rally.
The Republican frontrunner even joined the march and it was awesome.Protesters rolled out a huge balloon effigy of The Donald and marched through the streets chanting about inclusiveness:#MayDay rallies in Los Angeles carry strong anti-Trump theme for his anti-illegal immigration platform pic.twitter.com/xE7elZ8AAg News18 (@CNNnews18) May 2, 2016 #MayDay Los Angeles pic.twitter.com/6X0isdKPAW Mike (@mikemcgroarty1) May 1, 2016The march s organizer, Francisco Moreno told the LA Times that the billionaire frontrunner has no heart : He s plastic, he doesn t have a heart, he doesn t have a brain.
We re not going to vote for Trump!
Another protester, Gloria Carrasco, explained why she was at the rally, I m not a drug addict, I m none of what [Trump] says.
I want immigration reform.
In addition to the pro-immigration theme, protesters were also marching for LGBT rights, worker s rights, Muslims and against police brutality.
One sign read, Stand with immigrants, black lives, Muslims, LGBTQ people and low-wage workers!
Los Angeles wasn t the only city that held marches on Sunday.
In Seattle, thousands of people held their own rally, but the positivity of that event is largely being ignored by media outlets.
Instead of reporting about how amazing it was that so many people united for the rights of people across the country, they ve chosen to discuss a few protesters who clashed with police.
Yes, nine people were arrested, but this is what the march actually looked like: Several thousand take to streets of Seattle for #MayDay immigration and labor rights details @KIRORadio pic.twitter.com/hKtVjj0Mej Josh Kerns (@joshkerns38) May 2, 2016Several thousand take to streets of Seattle for #MayDay immigration and labor rights details @KIRORadio pic.twitter.com/hKtVjj0Mej Josh Kerns (@joshkerns38) May 2, 2016Members of Seattle First Baptist Church giving water to passing marchers.
#May1stSea#MayDaypic.twitter.com/LpztGSew4C El Comit (@ElComiteWA) May 1, 2016That s what May Day in Seattle actually looked like, not the videos of police violence that you will being played on a loop on the news today.What was clear from the marches in both cities is that the people of this country do not want the bombastic GOP frontrunner as their president.
He does not represent us.
He does not love this country or its people.
The only thing he wants to do is divide us, and immigrants, workers, Muslims, etc.
are the scapegoats he needs to appeal to his poorly educated supporters.
So, remember that when you go to the polls in November and vote blue.Featured image via David McNew/Getty Images