Republicans may act like they have faith in Donald Trump when the cameras are rolling, but if you ask them in private, they have some serious issues with his trainwreck of a presidency.On Tuesday, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told the ladies of The View that Republicans have real problems with Trump when you speak to them behind closed doors.
When you talk to Republicans quietly you know, in the cloak room and the gym they are having real problems with him, Schumer replied.
Now, very few John McCain, to his credit but very few have had the courage to oppose hime even though they know he s doing a lot of things that are against what America is all about My prediction is that if he keeps up on this path which is likely, I don t think he ll change within three or four months you re going to see a whole lot of Republicans breaking with him.
And that s the salvage of America.
That is the hope of America.
Schumer continued, noting that Trump has assembled the worst cabinet I ve ever seen in the history of America.
He then predicted that in a matter of months Trump will push Republicans to a point where they have no choice but to turn on him.Schumer explained that Trump had campaigned as a populist against both the Democratic and Republican establishments.
If he continued on that path, he might have some successes, Schumer said.
But what Trump has done is move to the hard, hard right, way beyond what most Republicans are for, and because of this, he will be a failure.
Schumer doesn t think Trump is going to change anytime soon, but he does think that there will come a time when Republicans will step up and put a stop to this madness.
Or at least he hopes so.
I do think, and hope and pray, that a lot of the Republicans they re mainstream people, I don t agree with them on the issues but they re good people that they will feel they have no choice but to break with him.
The minority leader also added that Trump s attacks on the press, in particular, are trouble for the democracy.
Watch the segment here:Featured image via video screen capture