Bernie Sanders smacked down a man at his Harlem rally on Saturday when he tried to imply that the senator was a supporter of Israel s war against Palestine.At the end of the event, a man grabbed the microphone from someone and brought up Sanders religion and the fact that he once spent a year in Israel before saying: As you know, the Zionist Jews and I don t mean to offend anybody they run the Federal Reserve, they run Wall Street, they run every campaign.
Bernie, realizing where the question was going, shook his head and said, Brother, brother, brother.
The man finished his question: What is your affiliation to your Jewish community?
That s all I m asking.
No, no, no, Sanders shot back.
That s not what you re asking.
He s right, what the man was really doing was trying to imply that the Senator is just like the Republican Party and blindly supports what Israel is doing to the Palestinian people.
He wanted people to think that just because the Democratic candidate is proud of his ancestry and religion, that he s totally cool with Benjamin Netanyahu s reign of terror on Palestine in his quest to steal all of their land.
That s what the man was doing.Instead of rising to the bait, Bernie took the opportunity to discuss his position on Israel and Palestine: I am proud to be Jewish.
But you re not going to find any candidate running for president, for example, talking about Zionism and the Middle East.
I am a strong defender of Israel, but I also believe that we have got to pay attention to the needs of the Palestinian people.
There are wonderful people, I ve met them, on both sides of that issue and there are bad people on both sides of that issue.
And if we are gonna bring peace, hopefully, God willing, in the Middle East we are gonna have to treat both sides with respect and equality.
So while it is unfortunate that our lawmakers support Israel (they really shouldn t) the reality of the current situation makes it impossible not to even Senator Sanders knows that.
But it is important to realize that you would never, ever hear Donald Trump or Ted Cruz say that we need to treat the Palestinian people with respect.
They are too busy calling them terrorists and kissing Netanyahu s ass.Watch: Featured image via video screenshot