President Obama s speech from a mosque in Baltimore, Maryland this week was welcomed by most as an important and timely gesture to bring together Americans of all faiths and none.
But for Donald Trump, is was a chance to sow the seeds of division with a truly pathetic, racist reaction.Obama s visit to the Islamic Society of Baltimore was the first time in U.S. history that a President has delivered a speech from an American mosque.
Given the rise of hate crimes against Muslim American and their places of worship, and unprecedented attacks on the faith from conservative lawmakers and media, this visit was much-needed.The center says on its website that it aspires to be the anchor of a growing Muslim community with diverse backgrounds, democratically governed, relating to one another with inclusiveness and tolerance, and interacting with neighbors in an Islamic exemplary manner.
Obama endorsed this message and made an impassioned call for moderates on all sides of the political and faith spectrum to come together around their common humanity.
He explicitly rejected the inexcusable political rhetoric against Muslim-Americans made by the likes of Donald Trump, and other Republican presidential candidates.He replaced their rhetoric with a powerful and unambiguous message of hope and community: Let me say as clearly as I can as president of the United States: you fit right here, You re right where you belong.
You re part of America too.
You re not Muslim or American.
You re Muslim and American.
What was Donald Trump s detailed, profound political response to this groundbreaking effort?
Speaking on Fox News, in an interview with Greta Van Susteren, Trump responded: I don t know if maybe he feels comfortable there.
Because he is a Kenyan Muslim Socialist?
I mean, come on Trump.
And how do we know it s just a case of Obama putting his Muslim brothers above natural born Americans?
We have a lot of problems in this country, Trump explained.
We have a lot of places he can go and he chose a mosque.
The reason Trump sinks to playing the race card with his reaction, is because it s actually the only card he has to play.
He has no platform, no ideas, no vision for America.
He only has a direct line to the prejudices of Republican voters and Fox viewers.
It ll get him coverage alright, but it sure as hell won t get him to the White House.Featured Image via Screengrab/Screengrab