The #NeverTrump GOP delegates are a determined bunch.
They tried tirelessly to change the rules of the Republican National Convention to keep Donald Trump from officially becoming their standard-bearer.
When the rule change was shot down, chaos ensued on the convention floor in Cleveland s Quicken Loans Arena as they demanded a roll call vote, which was also denied.
This resulted in a walkout by the Colorado delegation, and, of course, the great Orange One was officially given the banner of the party to carry that Thursday night.
Most people assumed that the Free the Delegates group was done after this.
Nothing could be further from the truth, though.This same group of people is now calling for an emergency meeting of the Republican National Committee as they launch yet another sure-to-fail effort to dump Trump.
It bears noting that this likely is mostly an effort to continue making noise, to show the RNC and the American public that the entire GOP is not like Donald Trump.
The proposed purpose for the meeting is to lay out the law about how the RNC could go about defying the will of the Republican primary voters and get rid of Trump.
They will be particularly interested in Rule 9, which is a provision specifically created to facilitate the replacing of an official nominee because of death, declination, or otherwise.
Since Trump isn t dead and likely won t be dropping out, otherwise is the vague word these Never Trumpers will be looking to find their loophole in.It probably won t happen, but seeing as how Trump is falling further and further behind Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the polls, they have reason to believe that he simply isn t a viable candidate.
Further, the sea of controversy in which Trump has engaged since being formally nominated, from his ongoing feud with the family of a fallen Muslim American soldier to his initial refusal to endorse House Speaker Paul Ryan and Arizona Senator John McCain, means that Trump clearly has zero capability or intention of becoming presidential.
If all else fails, the #NeverTrump people could always support the new Independent bid by conservative intelligence official Evan McMullin.All of that being said, though, these folks may as well hang it up.
The GOP is no longer the Party of Lincoln.
It is the Party of Trump.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images