Don Trump Jr., the privileged, wealthy son of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, showed everyone watching Fox News on Tuesday night that the apple doesn t fall far from the tree, and that his father isn t the only horrible person carrying the last name.Speaking with Greta van Susteren, 38-year-old Don not only defended his father s horrific violent outbursts, but said that Trump s temper tantrums showed the flip side to free speech.
This was in response to an incident on Monday, where Trump flipped out at a heckler that interrupted his rally in Nevada.
The front-runner said he wanted to punch the protester in the face, giving a rather detailed description of how he d like to hurt the man with threats like You know what they used to do with guys like that when they were in a place like this?
They d be carried out on a stretcher, folks.
I think that s the sentiment you see from the average person.
They re sick of being beat up, they re sick of being pushed around by everyone, they re sick of not having a voice anymore.
That s just something that s unusual.
Trump has actually become infamous for the violence at his campaign rallies which he has usually encouraged.
People who are brave enough to show up and protest are usually met with threats and sometimes physical assaults, even in instances where they re being completely peaceful, silent and merely holding a sign.
But to Trump and his son, any violence that comes to protesters for using their First Amendment rights is completely deserved.
Don said: I mean, if someone s trying to break up something, doing a great thing, there s 10,000 people in a room, watching an incredible event, and someone s trying to heckle them, I mean, I think it s a pretty natural response, and I think people love that he s honest about that.
He doesn t pretend, Oh, that s great, he s exercising whatever it may be, his freedoms.
He s going to say it like it is, and that s what s resonating so well with the American people.
Von Susteren brought up the fact that even protesters have a right to free speech, and asked Don if he thought there was something special about those rights.
Don agreed that the First Amendment is indeed special, but probably not in the way Von Susteren expected.
Don said: I agree 100 percent, Greta, and there s something special about being able to say, I want to punch that person in the face.
It works both ways.
I think it s great that people can exercise that, and he should be able to exercise his right to say what he wants about it.
He s finally saying the things that people are thinking in their minds, when they re being beat up by government or they re being pushed around.
He s saying what the hard-working, blue collar, middle class American family is thinking.
He s giving them a voice, he s talking with them, he s talking to them.
He s not talking at them, like regular politicians are doing, and that s why he s getting such a warm reception everywhere we go.
You can watch Don disgracefully endorse his father s behavior below:Featured image is a screenshot