It turns out that there are more than just one audio recording out there where you can hear Donald Trump saying terribly misogynistic things.
Around the same period a hot mic caught Donald Trump bragging about using his fame to sexually assault women in 2005, he also did an interview with Howard Stern where he said some very creepy and misogynistic things about his wife and daughter.
This includes a bit of audio where Trump told Stern that it was okay for the shock DJ to call his daughter a piece of ass.
My daughter is beautiful, Ivanka, says Trump during the interview.
By the way, your daughter, says Stern.
She s beautiful, responds Trump.
Can I say this?
A piece of ass, Stern responds.
Yeah, says Trump.During the show, Trump also called his wife Melania Trump a monster and a blimp.
According to Trump he meant this to be a positive statement.
That s because he was referring to Melania s breasts.
Like a blimp in the right places.
In her case, the right places.
I mean she really has become a monster in all the right places.
I mean monster in the most positive way.
She has gotten very, very large in all the right places.
Donald Trump s mouth is costing him big.
It seems as if every hour another elected Republican has denounced Trump after Friday s release of the now infamous audio that has Trump s campaign burning in flames.
Several have called for him to drop out of the race altogether.
Even Mike Pence, his running mate had some sharp words for his electoral wingman.
Funding halts suggest the RNC is prepared to stop supporting the Republican presidential nominee altogether.
From now until the election or Trump actually does end up dropping out more skeletons from Trump s past are going to come out and consume his campaign.
Remember just last week when it was revealed that Trump probably has not paid any income taxes in nearly two decades?
The scandals just do not end with this loser.
His campaign is toast.
The fact that he has managed to stay as strong as he has in the race is a sad commentary on the state of the U.S. politics.
Trump, do yourself a favor and drop out already.
It s only going to get worse from you from here on out.Featured image from Win McNamee/Getty Images