On Sunday, Donald Trump proved that he doesn t just endlessly complain about the affordable Care Act.
He has ideas, big, beautiful ideas on how to better provide Americans with health insurance in a manner that trumps Obamacare, which has caused our nation to suffer(?)
through having the lowest uninsured rate ever.
Despite the overwhelming success of the President s healthcare law, Trump agrees with fellow 2016 candidate Ted Cruz s nonsensical assertion that Obamacare is destroying the country though he takes exception to Cruz s claim that The Donald wants to replace it with single-payer insurance, which Trump supported wholeheartedly before becoming a Republican overnight.During a telephone interview with ABC s this Week, George Stephanopoulos asked Trump to respond to Cruz s statement that he intends to replace Obamacare with single-payer insurance.
Of course, The Donald responded in his usual manner: Ted Cruz is a total liar.
I am so against Obamacare.
I ve been saying it for two years in my speeches.
I m going to repeal and replace Obamacare.
I don t know even where he gets this.
But he s a liar.
Yes, Ted Cruz is a liar, but so is every Republican candidate for President.
Stephanopoulos reminded the billionaire that he is on record saying he wants everyone to have health insurance.
But Trump stood firm in his denial: That s true.
I want people taken care of, I have a heart.
If people have no money, we have to help people, but that doesn t mean single payer.
It means we have to help people.
How would you do it, the host asked the 2016 hopeful.
We re going to work with our hospitals, we re going to work with our doctors, Trump replied.
We ve got to do something.
You can t have a small percentage of our economy because they re down and out have absolutely no protection so they end up dying.
Yes, there are people who need health care even with the amazing progress made through the Affordable care Act and, if we were to replace it, Single Payer would be the way to go.
Trump could have said, Fine we ll replace Obamacare with single-payer and struck a huge win with many Republicans and Democrats alike.
Unfortunately, he just said he doesn t have any ideas:Watch the interview below:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mpKM_MXDDJo?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0&w=560&h=315]Featured image from screengrab