Millennial propaganda tool for the Democrat Party, Buzzfeed news publication attempted to do a hit piece on Eric Trump.
They claim that when Eric was giving his list of reasons his father chose to run for office, which included the insanity of the political correctness we see today, that he incorrectly stated the White House Christmas tree is called a Holiday Tree.
But did he really misspeak?Buzzfeed never addressed the core of Eric Trump s comments, which were really about the ruin of our nation over political correctness.
Instead, Buzzfeed chose to dissect one small part of what Eric Trump said about the White House Christmas tree, which, as it turns out, was actually mostly accurate.The White House Christmas tree was renamed the Holiday Tree in the 1990 s, Republican House Speaker Denny Hastert changed the name back to Christmas tree in 2005.
This is the garbage young Americans are reading every day in their social media newsfeed.
It s one of the primary reasons we see so many young people walking around in a stupor with Bernie Sanders or Hillary bumper stickers on their Prius .From Buzzfeed Eric Trump, listing off reasons his father is running for president, said in an interview this week that one of the motivations was the renaming of the White House Christmas tree to holiday tree.
The tree placed on the White House lawn during the holiday season is still called the National Christmas Tree.
He opens up the paper each morning and sees our nation s leaders giving a hundred billion dollars to Iran, or he opens the paper and some new school district has just eliminated the ability for its students to say the pledge of allegiance, or some fire department in some town is ordered by the mayor to no longer fly the American flag on the back of a fire truck, Trump told James Robison in an interview posted this week.Buzzfeed never questioned the validity of the ransom money our President covertly paid to Iran.
They never questioned whether or not schools and local governments are attempting to eliminate the pledge of allegiance, so as not to offend immigrants or refugees.
It s funny how they never suggested the story about the firemen being forced to remove the American flag from the back of their trucks was not 100% accurate.
Nope just the accuracy of the Christmas tree comment Or he sees the tree on the White House lawn has been renamed Holiday tree instead of Christmas tree, continued Trump.
I could go on and on for hours.
Those are the very things that made my father run, and those are the very things he cares about.
Chain emails that began when President Obama took office falsely claimed that tree had been renamed.
A tree on Capitol Hill was briefly called a Holiday Tree in the 1990s, but the name was changed in 2005 at the direction of then-Speaker Dennis Hastert.Watch Eric Trump s awesome speech at the RNC, where he talks about why his dad is running and why he s the most qualified man in America to step in and assume the office of President of the United States: