Well, this is a shocker!
It takes a brave person to speak up in Hollywood because they could be blacklisted for being supportive of President Trump.
We re guessing Jeff Bridges doesn t care what the Hollywood elite thinks because he s been around for decades acting, singing and producing.
We love what he had to say about Trump!
Who knew he s veteran too!Jeff Bridges played a president in The Contender, a political flick released nearly two decades ago in the wake of President Bill Clinton s White House scandals.
But when it comes to critiquing the role of today s real-life president, Bridges is a lot more laid back than some of his fellow celebrities.
How would The Dude, the character he played in The Big Lebowski, handle things?
He likely wouldn t be dangling a severed head in the likeness of President Donald Trump, as comedian Kathy Griffin came under fire for.
Neither would The Dude joke about killing the president as Johnny Depp recently did.
Griffin and Depp later apologized.
Everybody has something different and unique to contribute to society and with different ways of doing it, Bridges said in an interview Wednesday with The Associated Press, after taking part on a panel focused on child hunger at a meeting of the Western Governors Association in Whitefish, Montana.
Some people will be blatantly out there talking about their disappointments and ridiculing the way President Trump is acting, said Bridges, who supported Hillary Clinton in last year s election.
I m rooting for him to do well by our country, he said.
I m rooting for him as a human being to do the cool thing.
WHO KNEW?
JEFF BRIDGES IS A VETERAN!
What do Beau Bridges, Jeff Bridges and Lloyd Bridges have in common?
Ok yes they are all well-known actors and yes they are all related!
But all three have something very patriotic in common!They all proudly served our country in the United States Coast Guard.
From left to right: Jeff Bridges (True Grit, The Big Lebowski, Oscar for Crazy Heart) served 7 years in the Coast Guard Reserve.
Beau Bridges (The Fabulous Baker Boys, The Fifth Musketeer) served 8 years in the Coast Guard Reserve.
And Father to Jeff and Beau, Lloyd Bridges (Around the World Under the Sea, Airplane!, Hot Shots) left Columbia Pictures to join the Coast Guard during WWII.
After returning to film acting he then joined the Coast Guard Auxiliary, 11th District in California.
Lloyd later did a number of public service announcements for the Coast Guard and was appointed an honorary USCG Commodore.BRIDGES HAS WORKED ON CHILD HUNGER FOR DECADES: Bridges said he is especially concerned about proposed cuts to federal food assistance programs, which he said could harm the well-being of more children.
The actor has been an ambassador for No Kid Hungry campaign, a national effort to address food insecurity among struggling families.
He founded the End Hunger Network in 1983 and became the national spokesman for No Kid Hungry in 2010.
Bridges splits his time between homes in Southern California and Montana.
He has helped Montana Gov.
Steve Bullock and the state s first lady, Lisa Bullock, on expanding school breakfast programs.
The health of our children is a wonderful compass that can tell us if our country is going the right direction, he said.
That means we re off course, so I m rooting for the president to get on course.
Via: AP