A man almost lost his life on a flight out of Detroit because of a racist flight crew member who apparently forgot that it s 2016 and black women are allowed to be doctors.
I know, it seems shocking to someone with that mindset, but we re pretty much over the who not allowing someone to follow their dreams and live up to their potential because of their skin color thing.
Unfortunately, the crew of Delta flight DL945 didn t get the memo.When a passenger became unresponsive during the flight, the crew leaped into action looking for a doctor and Dr. Tamika Cross would have done so as well, if they thought someone with her dark complexion was capable of being a medical professional.
On Facebook, Cross vented her frustration with representatives of the airline:When Cross initially attempted to inform the crew she was a doctor by raising her hand as she was asked, she was flatly told her silly dark-skinned medical knowledge was useless to them even though a man was dying.
Oh no sweetie put ur hand down, we are looking for actual physicians or nurses or some type of medical personnel, we don t have time to talk to you, Cross says a flight attendant informed her, overtalking her attempts to explain that she is a licensed medical professional with condescension.
Any physician on board please press your button the crew urged, as no one but Cross had responded.
She pushed her button.
Oh wow you re an actual physician?
the flabbergasted crew member asked before demanding to see Cross s credentials and asking a series of questions that should not be asked when a man is dying and time is of the essence: What type of doctor are you?
Where do you work?
Why were you in Detroit?
Fortunately, a white man stepped forward to save the day because the crew obviously was having a tough time finding a doctor who met their qualifications (apparently white skin being the qualification).
Cross was told thanks for your help but he can help us, and he has his credentials.
He did not, in fact, show the crew anything, Cross points out in her post.After Mr. White Doctor saved the day, the same crew member had the nerve to come to Cross with questions about treatment before ultimately apologizing for her blatantly racist behavior and trying to bribe Cross with skymiles.
Cross refused.Unfortunately, while we have made great progress, we still have a long way to go in terms of race relations in America and Delta is not going to have a very good week trying to make this problem go away.Featured image via Facebook