Three police officers were shot and killed in Baton Rouge, Louisiana Sunday morning.
Detective Steve Loomis, the head of the police union in Cleveland, Ohio, spoke to Fox News about the shooting.
That s when he decided to blame President Obama for the deaths of the officers involved as well as the five police officers killed in Dallas, Texas, saying that there is blood on his hands and it will not be able to become washed off.
According to Loomis, President Obama has created a false narrative against police: Absolutely heart-wrenching watching what is going on in Baton Rouge right now.
And the reasons behind it.
You know this all began the Dallas police officers being ambushed and murdered.
Baton Rouge, this looks like the same thing.
This all began with a 911 call from an African-American male saying another African-American male was pointing a gun at him.
The president of the United States validated the false narrative and the nonsense that Black Lives Matter and the media are pressing out there to the public.
Validated it with his very divisive statements and now we see an escalation.
This has got to end.
We need some leadership in this country.
Well, that is not the case at all, obviously.
President Obama recently pointed out that there is a problem with racial disparities in policing and the criminal justice system in the United States.
Those are data driven, provable facts.Police like Loomis are a major part of the problem in this country.
He is so desperate to prove that black lives do not matter to him that he blamed Tamir Rice for his own death at the hands of the police.
An innocent child who was killed for by the police for playing with a toy gun.Loomis is right, we need some leadership in this country.
We need people to rise up and continue to demand radical reforms in our criminal justice system.
We need leaders in the police forces to admit that there is a problem and do something about it.
That s the type of leadership we need right now.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XmWKbv_CowFeatured image via video screenshot