President Barack Obama made history when he appointed a Christian Air Force veteran to the President s Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships.
Since conservatives love our troops, this is a move that they widely celebrat oh, wait they have a problem with it.Satin is quite successful; she served as a member of the United Church of Christ s executive council with great success.
In fact, she is the first openly transgender member of the UCC executive council, and was involved in the church s decision to include transgender individuals in the ministry of the church.
Of course, her successes are the reason conservatives hate her.
The White House notes that:Barbara Satin is the Assistant Faith Work Director for the National LGBTQ Task Force.
She is an active member of the United Church of Christ and served on the denomination s Executive Council as its first openly transgender member.
Ms.
Satin recently worked on the development of Spirit on Lake, a LGBTQ senior housing project in Minneapolis.
She served on the Board of Directors for OutFront Minnesota from 2001 to 2008 and has served as Chair of GLBT Generations since 1999.
She has also served on the Board of Directors of PFund Foundation, a regional LGBTQ community foundation advancing social justice in Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin, since 2013.
Given the current political climate, I believe it s important that a voice of faith representing the transgender and gender non-conforming community as well as a person of my years, nearly 82 be present and heard in these vital conversations, Satin said in a statement after the President selected her for her new position.The mission of the President s Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, which brings together leaders and experts in fields related to the work of faith-based and neighborhood organizations in order to make recommendations to the Administration on how to improve the partnerships it forms to serve people in need, is quite admirable.But conservatives just can t get past that whole transgender thing.
In the comment section of The Blaze, our frenemies on the Right really let their hatred flow.
Some complained that Obama appointed a dude (the only time in their lives in which they were angry about a white man being appointed to an important position), Satin is a good woman who served her country honorably in the military and continues to do so.
Conservatives, unfortunately, care nothing for that because she might or might not have a penis.Featured image via screengrab/CBN