In fly-over country, and pretty much anywhere in between the east and west coasts of America, people are sick and tired supporting the arrogant, condescending, anti-American, Trump hating, liberal actors and Hollywood is finally starting to feel the pain in their pocketbooks.
George Clooney s Suburbicon notched one of the most dismal wide-release debuts in recent years on a sluggish pre-Halloween weekend where the horror sequel Jigsaw topped all releases despite an underperforming debut.Despite debuting on more than 2,000 screens, Suburbicon managed just $2.8 million, making it one of Paramount Pictures worst performing wide-releases ever and marking a new box-office low for Clooney as a director and star Matt Damon.
Obviously we are disappointed in these results which we don t feel are indicative of the quality and message of his original movie, said Kyle Davies, president of distribution for Paramount.
liberal activist actors Matt Damon, George Clooney and Julianne MooreAre liberal activist actors Matt Damon, George Clooney and Julianne Moore so blinded by their hate for middle America, that they can t see the audience they re trying to appeal to, has lost their desire to support them and their sub-par movies?Before the election last year, Matt Damon expressed his anxiety over a possible Trump win: It makes me nervous, Damon said of the possibility that Trump would win the presidency (which he did via the Electoral College).
It s a binary choice .
There s no way we can let this guy be the [president].
To let that dude have the nuclear football, are you kidding me?
That s dangerous.
He s impulsive and rash, and doesn t seem to think deeply about too many things.
Who can forget George Clooney s interview, where he laughed at the idea that Trump would win the election, saying There s not gonna be a President Donald Trump.
That s not gonna happen.
Co-star Julianne Moore is no stranger to the Hollywood anti-Trump movement.
The outspoken gun-control advocate shared her thoughts with the Huffington Post on Trump s nationalistic rhetoric more specifically.
It s a very interesting time, she said.
I don t know that any society has moved forward by being exclusive and nationalistic and that s what I m seeing Donald Trump doing.
I think it s very negative and incredibly detrimental to us as a society.