Nothing ever is as it appears.
There is usually more to the story than one side.
Of course, the media isn t interested in the cops side of the story, because it won t help the Left and their war on cops.
There is more than one tragedy in this story, and that is the tragedy of Reynold s 4 year old girl.
What this little girl has had to endure with a mother who openly used drugs in front of her and videotaped her crotch and various other body parts while listening to explicit music (see video below) is beyond the pale.
We aren t saying the cop in this case is innocent or guilty.
We ll do what most Americans should do in any criminal case We ll wait for all of the facts to come out before we make any judgements.
The question is, Is it possible for the Black Lives Matter rioters to take a deep breath until the truth is discovered in this case, or is there some sense of urgency to punish/kill cops and police forces across the country before this case ever goes to court?
The Falcon Heights, Minnesota police shooting of Philando Castile is based around an entirely false narrative.
Castile and Ms. Diamond Reynolds (Facebook video uploader) were pulled over by police because Castile matched a BOLO Alert for an armed robbery suspect from four days prior.In addition, Mr. Castile also matched the physical description of the suspect as given by eye witnesses:Unfortunately, the false statements in the video which have gone viral, and are being pushed by the mainstream media have created a backlash against police officers.Police officers in: Dallas (link), Tennessee (link), Missouri (link) and Georgia (link) have been Shot or killed in the past 24 hours as a result of a false narrative driven by the Black Lives Matter movement.
It is important to get the truth out quickly.Saint Anthony, MN, Police Officers Jeronimo Yanez and Joseph Kauser pulled over Mr. Castile and Ms. Reynolds because the driver, Philando Castile, matched the suspect profile in an armed robbery which occurred on July 2nd, at a convenience store, only a few blocks from where their car was pulled over.The armed robbery occurred on July 2nd 7:30pm (Sat).
The CCTV images were given to media and LEO by detectives on July 5th (Tuesday).
A BOLO (Be On Look Out) alert was issued the same day, Tuesday July 5th.
Philando Castile was pulled over on July 6th.From the radio dispatch of Officer Jeronimo Yanez: I m going to stop a car.
I m going to check IDs.
I have reason to pull it over.
The two occupants just look like people that were involved in a robbery.
The driver looks more like one of our suspects, just cause of the wide set nose.
A minute and a half later, the recording captures the first report that there was a shooting.
(link)Ms. Diamond Reynolds narrates the now viral Facebook video with several false statements.Reynolds claimed they were pulled over for a broken tail light, false.Ms.
Reynolds also claims her boyfriend, Castile, was holding a concealed carry permit for a firearm that was resting on his left thigh.
This also appears to be false.According to a question presented to the local county sheriff who oversees the Concealed Carry Permit process, Mr. Castile had never requested a concealed carry permit from their office:It is possible a CCP was obtained in another county, however the media are conflating permit to purchase with concealed carry permit .
For some reason the CCP ownership is being amplified; it really has no bearing and is largely irrelevant for the context of the situation.
That said, there is no factual evidence Mr. Philando Castile had a CCP.Due to the rear facing camera option on the phone Ms. Reynolds was using, the uploaded video everyone has seen is a reversed mirror image making it appear she was in the drivers side, and Castile was on the passenger side.
However, that impression is incorrect, Castile was driving the vehicle.
The uploaded image is reversed by Facebook Livestream Video.However, correcting the mirror image, in part of the video it is possible to see a hand gun located on the thigh of Philando Castile.
This also appears to be why Officer Yanez repeats to Ms. Reynolds not to reach toward her boyfriend:This hand gun also appears to be the same type of hand gun used in the Convenience Store Armed robbery four days earlier (7/2/16)In addition, Mr. Castile also matched the physical description of the suspect as given by eye witnesses:[ ] The other suspect was described as a black man with shoulder-length dreadlocks, who wore tan pants, tan shoes with white soles, a green jacket, a green baseball cap and glasses, the release says.
He also had some of his hair pulled into a bun through the strap on the back of his hat and had a small mustache and facial hair on his chin.
(link)Similar clothes as noted on the robbery suspect are also noted in the Facebook images of Mr. Castile.
However, whether Mr. Castile is actually the person who committed the armed robbery is -again- essentially a moot point.
Officer Geronimo Yanez gave the reason for the stop over the radio to his dispatcher as a possible ID on an armed robbery suspect Via: Conservative TreehouseDennis Michael Lynch From what we can see in the video, Castile is hunched over in the passenger seat of a car driven by Castile s girlfriend, Diamond Reynolds.
His shirt is blood soaked and he is barely alive.
Reynolds talks to her Facebook Live audience as a cop is outside the car calling for backup, and her young daughter sits in the back seat.Here is the video of the shooting.
***WARNING***This video is VERY GRAPHIC and DISTURBING:In the video, Reynolds claims Castile did nothing wrong.
She says the police officer asked for Castile s license, and that Castile told the officer he was legally carrying a firearm before he reached for his identification.
According to Reynolds, it was when Castile reached for his license that the cop shot him in the arm four times.
After Reynolds makes her claim, she points the camera at the police officer who is standing outside the passenger window with his gun pointed at a wounded Castile.
The police officer counters Reynolds claim by stating he told Castile not to reach for his gun.Because the video was captured after the shooting, it all comes down to Reynolds word versus the word of the police officer.
But can we take Reynolds word as being credible?This uncovered, disturbing video shows Castile and Reynolds in car with Reynolds young daughter in the back seat only days before confrontation with police:Three days before his death, Castile took part in another one of Reynolds Facebook Live videos.
In this video Diamond Reynolds sits in the driver s seat and films herself smoking pot.
At one point she passes the joint to Castile.
This all takes place while Reynolds daughter watches from the back seat.In addition to showcasing her own drug use, the majority of the video is Reynolds filming her body parts for the world to see, including her breasts and crotch.
Castile just sits back and says nothing while Reynolds makes her video.
Meanwhile, Reynolds daughter is in the background watching her mother.
She appears disturbed by the situation and asks her mother if they can leave to watch fireworks.