Texas conservatives are cheering after Britain voted to leave the European Union because they believe it means they can secede from the United States.Upon learning of the results, conservatives took to social media to urge Texas to declare independence.Texas should leave the failed American Union & rejoin the world as an independent, self-governing nation.
#Texit https://t.co/0esvrO46Ei Trey Mays (@TreyMays) June 24, 2016 Now, Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma secede and form a new country called the United States of Awesome!
#Texit.
Collin O Scopy (@Crapplefratz) June 24, 2016In the event that @HillaryClinton becomes POTUS .. @GovAbbott can we begin plans for #Texit ?
Thanks for your SUPERB leadership!
#tcot #2A Stan Weber (@spweber54) June 24, 2016 Please please please now can we have a vote for Texas to leave the US?
#Texit (((Jeff Tiedrich))) (@jefftiedrich) June 24, 2016Join over 260,000 fellow Texans who have pledge to vote FOR Texas Independence!https://t.co/u0U3aSHvOX#Texit pic.twitter.com/mCl5841lf8 TNM (@TexasNatMov) June 15, 2016 Forget #Brexit I want to know when we re going to start a #Texit pic.twitter.com/rAbkR0gWxy Modern Rebel (@MAmericanRebel) June 11, 2016No one is happier about the the British exit from the EU than Texas Nationalist Movement president Daniel Miller.In an interview with The Guardian, Miller claimed that Britain leaving the EU is the exact same as Texas wanting to leave the United States.
You could take Britain out and replace it with Texas .
You could take EU out and replace it with US .
You could take Brussels out and replace it with Washington DC .
You could give you guys a nice Texas drawl and no one would know any different.
So much of it is exactly the same.
The vast majority of the laws, rules and regulations that affect the people of Texas are created by the political class or un-elected bureaucrats in Washington, he continued.It s not likely that Texas will be able to secede, however.
Shortly after the Civil War, the Supreme Court ruled in Texas v. White:When, therefore, Texas became one of the United States, she entered into an indissoluble relation.
All the obligations of perpetual union, and all the guaranties of republican government in the Union, attached at once to the State.
The act which consummated her admission into the Union was something more than a compact; it was the incorporation of a new member into the political body.
And it was final.
The union between Texas and the other States was as complete, as perpetual, and as indissoluble as the union between the original States.
There was no place for reconsideration or revocation, except through revolution or through consent of the States.In short, the only way Texas can secede is if a majority of the states agree to let Texas do so.And perhaps it s time to let them.The Republican Party would suffer a serious blow if Texas exited the Union.
Texas has 38 electoral votes and sends 36 representatives to Congress, 25 of whom are Republicans.
The two Senators Texas sends to Congress are also Republicans.
So not only would Democrats win the presidency handily, they could take back the House and the Senate.Furthermore, the United States government could stop sending federal dollars to Texas.You can also bet that conservatives would flock to Texas in search of a conservative paradise.And when the new country of Texas becomes a failed state, we can just build a wall around it and let them deal with their own mess instead of coming to their rescue again as America did in 1845 when Texas begged for entrance into the United States because it was in severe debt.It s time to cut the cord, America.
Texas has been dragging this country down for too long.
We survived as a nation for nearly 100 years without Texas.
We didn t need Texas then.
We definitely do not need Texas now.
The Republican Party needs Texas, but we don t. So let s kill two birds with one stone and let Texas go.
Because once Texas goes, so goes the Republican Party.
Texas entered this country in what they call a marriage of convenience.
This would just be a divorce of convenience, except that America would finally progress into the future we deserve while Texas continues to go backwards.Featured image via Wikimedia