Somali immigrant and Minnesota police officer Mohamed Noor shot and killed a 40 yr. old Australian woman when they arrived at her home to respond to a call she made about a potential sexual assault near her home.
Officer Noor has only been a police officer for 2 years, and although he is celebrated by the local mayor for being a Somali immigrant, he is no stranger to controversy.
He currently has two open complaints that have filed against him and one that has been dismissed without any disciplinary action from the Minnesota Police Department.Many are struggling to understand why the 40-year old Australian citizen Justine Dramond, who was set to be married to a US citizen, was shot in her pajamas after calling to report a crime near her home.Zach Damond, would-step,son of Justine was interviewed a woman who identifies herself as Bethany and then shamelessly went on to plug the Women s March of Minnesota before asking Zach about his deceased mother.
Zach, who is understandably emotional about the murder of father s fianc , tells Bethany that America sucks and F*ck the police.
Zach clarified his statement saying, Some of you are good, but like I m just done.
I m so done.
This has to stop.
This has to stop.
That was my mom.
Watch:Dramond, born Justine Ruszczyk but took her fiance s last name ahead of their nuptuals, called police Saturday night to report a possible sexual assault behind her home.She was in her pajamas when the police cruiser, driven by Harrity, arrived at the scene.The officers were speaking with Dramond when Noor fired across Harrity, hitting the 40-year-old woman in the abdomen.
Harrity was stunned his partner opened fire, police sources told local NBC affiliate KARE.
NYDNEngaged to be married in August, with a fiancee and soon-to-be stepson, Damond had her whole life ahead of her.
She had moved to America, friends back in Sydney said, to follow her heart.She was engaged to Don Damond, who works as a vice president and general manager for a Minnesota casino.
Back in Australia, Damond was the daughter of a prominent bookstore owner.Don Damond on fiance Justine #justinedamond pic.twitter.com/4c5uh3Y10o MNN Newsroom (@news_MNN) July 17, 2017Don Damond told the news media on July 17 that the family s hearts were broken.
HeavyThe shooting sparked outrage, particularly because the officers body cameras were not on.Two of the three complaints in Mohamed Noor s police file are active, according to the Minneapolis Star-Tribune.
One was closed without discipline.Details of the complaints are unclear.But the 31-year-old cop, who joined the force in 2015, is being sued for a May 25 incident in which a woman claimed he grabbed her right wrist and upper arm and injured her as he and other officers transported her to the hospital.
NYPHere is the newly released audio of the shooting, only moments after the incident took place: