Since the inauguration, Ivanka Trump has spent much of her time desperately working to make people forget that she s complicit in many of her father s worst behaviors.
While she doesn t mind exploiting a little nepotism to get her own office in the White House, she actively pretends she s innocent in all of this.Part of her strategy is to promote herself (and her brand) on social media as family-friendly and fun.
Along with tweets about her father s policies, she regularly posts pictures of her and her family enjoying vacations and activities.
She recently thought this would be a fun picture to add to her Twitter account.
Who doesn t love an elephant?Making some new friends in DC!
pic.twitter.com/D7j4e0IUHW Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) March 26, 2017There were a few glaring problems, though.
The photo op only served to reinforce what a hypocrite she is.
Given her unique position to actually influence her family, her silence speaks volumes.
A real friend of the elephants might, for example, criticize her brother Donald Trump Jr for murdering wild elephants as part of his routine safari trips.
@IvankaTrump Doesn't your family normally kill those things?
pic.twitter.com/8tAfVxMR7y Kaj-Erik Eriksen (@KajEriksen) March 27, 2017She might point out to her brother that posing with the severed tail of an elephant he had just killed was a disgusting thing to do and he should wipe that smug grin off of his face.pic.twitter.com/DhVDc6TVvJ Clara Jeffery (@ClaraJeffery) March 27, 2017She might encourage both of her brothers to stop trying to replace their insecurities with dead animals.Yes, @ClaraJeffery This!Ivanka pretends to be humane Her family murder for fun.And she doesn't care.
pic.twitter.com/AM3aN2FmX4 Steve Marmel (@Marmel) March 28, 2017She also might take a more active interest in what her father is doing.
Trump has shown no interest in murdering elephants individually, but his lack of respect for environmental protections might make him one of their greatest enemies nonetheless.
Trump recently proposed defunding every cent of federal funding to combat climate change.
Every single cent.
His new head of the EPA, a climate science denier, called fighting the devastating effects of climate change a waste of time.
Renowned climate scientist Michael Mann put what Trump is doing in the simplest possible terms: It s an all-out assault on Earth.
Meanwhile, African elephants continue to slowly circle towards extinction.
Plagued by a changing environment, poachers, and human development, their habitat has become a dangerous place to live.
The Trump family is a major part of that.Some friend.Featured image via Twitter