Well, this came back to bite Allen West on the ass.The former Republican congressman from Florida apparently wants to be part of Donald Trump s cabinet.
So he had to scrub and make up a pathetic excuse to explain a very racist post on his Facebook page.In celebration of Trump s choice of former General James Mattis to be Secretary of Defense, West posted a meme of Mattis with the caption, Fired by Obama to please the Muslims.
Hired by Trump to exterminate them.
Here s the now-deleted post via Twitter.Once in a while, the mask slips down and people like Allen West reveal their true thoughts.
pic.twitter.com/zaREZ34VdF Imraan Siddiqi (@imraansiddiqi) December 11, 2016That s right.
West literally cheered for Mattis because he expects him to commit genocide against 1.6 billion people who practice Islam.It s despicable and West should be automatically taken out of consideration for any spot on Trump s team.But in an effort to cover his ass, West has the editor-in-chief of his website take responsibility for the post and apologized for it.
You know, because West is too cowardly to do it himself.
As editor in chief, I must take full responsibility for this, although I was not the one who posted it, and it was posted without my knowledge, Michele Hickford claimed.
I neither condone nor support the message included in the meme.
This meme was not created by me or any of our writers.
It was reposted from another source.
The image has been removed.
Its message was despicable, offensive to many, and a terrible error in judgment by the person who posted it.
Furthermore, it does not reflect Col. West s beliefs, principles and values.
Clearly, West is still incapable of taking responsibility for things himself, just like Donald Trump.
And it s not like there isn t any proof that West hates Muslims and has no problem committing war crimes against them.Four of the men under his command in Iraq beat an Iraqi policeman in an effort to get information.
West then threatened to kill the man by firing his pistol near the man s head.
This is torture and to make it stop, the man gave meaningless information to his tormentors.
West should have faced a court-martial but he was allowed to retire instead will full benefits.So Allen West has no business being put in charge of a government department nor should he be placed in any position of authority in our government at all.
His hatred of Muslims disqualifies him and it would be an insult to humanity to appoint him.Featured Image: Wikimedia