People always wonder why black people are so reluctant to call the police for help, but here is yet another example in a long line that demonstrates just why we are so wary of law enforcement, even when we are the victims.19-year-old Chicago resident Quintonio LeGrier called 911 three times in an emergency, only to have dispatchers hang up on him.
When police arrived, as happens in so many of these cases, he was fatally shot by the very people charged with serving and protecting him.
From The Root:According to ABC News, audio of the 19-year-old s 911 calls made Dec. 26 were released late Monday by Chicago s Independent Police Review Authority, which is investigating both LeGrier s death and the death of his neighbor Bettie Jones.
Jones, 55, was also shot and killed by police after she opened their apartment building door to let police in.Earlier that day, LeGrier called 911 asking that a police officer be sent to his address.
The first call was made at 4:18 a.m., and the last call was made three minutes later.
There s an emergency, can you send an officer?
LeGrier can be heard saying on one of the calls.During one call, LeGrier didn t respond to the 911 operator s questions and the dispatcher hung up on the teen, ABC reports.However, instead of providing assistance, the cops came, after Quintonio s father, Antonio LeGrier, told a 911 operator, My son has freaked out.
I need an officer.
When the supposed help arrived, the child was shot dead.
Police, of course, are covering their asses.
The statement they released regarding the incident reads: Upon arrival, officers were confronted by a combative subject resulting in the discharging of the officer s weapon, fatally wounding two individuals.
Quintonio LeGrier was not the only person the cops murdered that night.
A woman named Bettie Jones, a 55-year-old mother with five children, was also executed.This is why black people do not trust the police.
I don t care what kind of trouble I am in, they are the last people I d call for help because said help just might cost me my life.Watch a video news report on the incident below:Featured image via video screen capture