It is not even 7 AM on the American east coast as of this writing, and Donald Trump is already up and tweeting.
As per usual when we get these early morning, unhinged rants from Trump, he is on the attack this time with an old foe, The New York Times.
As we all know, Trump has long had a frosty relationship with the media, and even invited them to Trump Tower only to rant at them about how he doesn t like how they covered him.
Now, he has cancelled a meeting with the Times, the news organization that he had the most criticism for.
Without further ado, here is all the craziness in its full glory:I cancelled today's meeting with the failing @nytimes when the terms and conditions of the meeting were changed at the last moment.
Not nice Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 22, 2016Perhaps a new meeting will be set up with the @nytimes.
In the meantime they continue to cover me inaccurately and with a nasty tone!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 22, 2016The failing @nytimes just announced that complaints about them are at a 15 year high.
I can fully understand that but why announce?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 22, 2016This man is literally nuts.
Instead of planning his transition, he is scolding the media, picking fights with Saturday Night Live and Hamilton, and deliberately trying to undermine the free press, which is one of our most vital American institutions and is especially important when the person about to take office is an unhinged serial liar.Hopefully, the press resists the temptation to normalize Trump, and they call him out on every lie, every crazy, unAmerican idea, and every corrupt thing he does.
If they don t, we can kiss our democracy goodbye, because we just elected a literal fascist.
Remember, folks sowing distrust in institutions such as the free press is the first thing that happens when fascism begins to take hold.
Trump is already neck-deep in that one.
I shudder to think what s next.Featured image via Scott Eisen/Getty Images