John McCain was already walloped by Barack Obama in a presidential election, so it s only natural that the president would be at the center of what very well end McCain s political career entirely.The man responsible for bringing Sarah Palin into our lives isn t exactly known for his impulse-control, but it appears he massively overplayed his hand in his latest rush to bash President Obama.
In the days after long-time Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia passed away, McCain became one of the de facto cheerleaders for the Senate Republican plan to spend the next year preventing Obama from fulfilling his constitutional obligation to nominate a replacement.He announced that he would be standing with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in opposing any nomination until after the election which means the seat would remain unfilled for nearly a year, and perhaps a great deal longer.
For Republicans, this knee-jerk obstruction was so automatic that it seems almost nobody thought it through beforehand.
So quick were they to oppose Obama, that they didn t stop to think about how it would look for the party already known for saying no to issue blanket opposition to a constitutional mandate.McCain, like many of his colleagues, is now discovering that his headlong rush into obstruction may be a career-ending blunder.
A new poll conducted by Public Policy Polling found that his constituents in Arizona are fed up with his antics, and his already-low favorability numbers are tanking hard.As to McCain s position, 55 percent said it made them less likely to vote for his re-election this year; 21 percent said it made them more likely to vote for him; and 24 percent said it wouldn t make any difference.The poll, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 percentage points, also indicated that just 26 percent approve of McCain s job performance while 63 percent disapprove and 12 percent were unsure.In short: Nobody in Arizona seems to have any respect for John McCain.
That s not a good position to be in, because McCain is facing a tough primary and an even tougher Democratic challenger in November.
Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick is running for McCain s seat, and wasted no time calling out the senator: Members of the U.S. Senate have an obligation to uphold the Constitution and fulfill their duties, including voting on Supreme Court nominees regardless of party affiliation, Kirkpatrick told the press via a prepared statement.
John McCain used to take that responsibility seriously.
Care to hazard a guess what McCain s reaction to the poll was?
Here s his campaign spokeswoman: This fake poll from liberal activists is the creation of partisan Democrat hacks who have tried and failed for years to defeat John McCain.
Liberal bias, right on cue.At this point in his life, McCain isn t just fighting for his continued career in politics, he s fighting for his legacy.
Rather than go out with a modicum of integrity, he decided to listen to the lemmings in his party that promised him that salvation was just beyond that edge of that cliff they were headed towards.
It s painful to watch.
Sadly, for politicians, you are only as good as the last thing you did.
McCain will go out being remembered as a deeply unpopular senator who was so blinded by his hatred of Obama that it prevented him from accomplishing anything.Featured image via Gage Skidmore/Flickr