She s really come undone in this latest interview Hillary Clinton became visibly irritated during an interview with Australian TV when she was asked about Wikileaks Assange.The interview with local Australian TV has several delusional moments that reveal her continued bitterness and downright psychosis when it comes to the 2016 election loss to Donald Trump.
I think Assange has become a nihilistic opportunist who does the bidding of a dictator, Clinton said, apparently referring to Russia s Vladimir Putin.When the interviewer noted many people view Assange as a martyr for free speech and freedom of information.
Clinton wasn t having it and shot back: I mean, he s a tool of Russian intelligence.
If he s such a martyr for free speech, why doesn t WikiLeaks ever publish anything coming out of Russia?
The interviewer then did something our American media never does.
She challenged Clinton with this question: Isn t he just doing what journalists do which is publish information when they get it?
HERE S WHERE HILLARY GOES OFF THE RAILS: I don t think so, Hillary snapped.
I think for number one, it s stolen information, and number two, if all you did was publish it, that would be one thing, she asserted, before claiming there was a concerted operation between WikiLeaks and Russia and most likely, people in the United States to, as I say, weaponized that information.
Hillary Clinton says Julian Assange is a tool of Russian intelligence .
@HillaryClinton says @JulianAssange is a "tool of Russian intelligence".
Watch the interview tonight on #4Corners.
pic.twitter.com/htY89d7GVe 4corners (@4corners) October 15, 2017HERE S WHERE ASSANGE NAILS HILLARY:Assange came back at Clinton with a PERFECT description of her cold creepiness .
He tweeted out that people should watch closely and see that there is something much darker than the lying and menacing glares : There s something wrong with Hillary Clinton.
It is not just her constant lying, he tweeted.
It is not just that she throws off menacing glares and seethes thwarted entitlement.
Watch closely.
Something much darker rides along with it.
A cold creepiness rarely seen.
The interviewer goes on to ask Hillary about Fox News:.
@HillaryClinton says @FoxNews no longer a journalism outfit.
pic.twitter.com/DUWM5WphCG 4corners (@4corners) October 16, 2017In more from the interview, it s clear Hillary needs some therapy.
She claims that Jim Comey shivved her .
That is a prison term for being murdered with a knife.
What the heck made her use that term?
Now that s REALLY creepy!She also lied AGAIN and said our voting systems were attacked: