How mad is Trump that millions of women made him look like a fool?
Mad enough to kill, apparently.
While he can t order the executions of American women for defying him yet President Pussygrabber did the next best thing.
He signed an executive order that will lead to the deaths of multitudes of women and girls worldwide.On Monday, The Donald continued the path of destruction he began with his first executive order attacking Obamacare by unleashing an assault on the women and girls of the world.
One of Trump s growing number of executive orders reinstates the global gag rule, which blocks federal funding for international, nongovernmental organizations that provide or promote abortions.In short, if your organization were to partner with Planned Parenthood to inform girls and women across the globe about reproductive health like, say, the Clinton Foundation, people like Trump could argue that you are promoting abortion by mentioning it as a medically legitimate option.The policy was originally developed by President Ronald Reagan in 1984.
Ever since then, Presidents who care about human rights like Obama and Clinton have been rescinding it.
Republicans, however, being part of a party that combats women s rights at every turn, typically reinstate it.How harmful is it?
Mother Jones reports:According to the Center for Reproductive Rights, women in poor countries suffer the most from this policy.
A 2003 analysis found that the rule leads to unsafe abortions, which are the second-leading cause of death for women of reproductive age in Ethiopia and account for more than 40 percent of the maternal mortality rate in Kenya.
Peru has one of the highest maternal mortality rates in Latin America, in part because of its high rate of clandestine abortions.The United States currently spends about $600 million annually on family planning and reproductive health programs in foreign countries.
The Guttmacher Institute, a think tank that studies reproductive health care, estimates that a loss of this funding would translate to 38,000 more abortions.
Marie Stopes International, one of USAID s biggest family planning partners, estimates that the global gag rule will lead to an additional 2.2 million abortions worldwide.Trump s order comes on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade and directly follows a nationwide three-million women march against Trump and his hate.
This didn t go unnoticed in Trump s homeland of Twitterville:1/21: 2.5 million women march.1/22: 44th anniversary of Roe v. Wade1/23: Trump starts rolling back women's rightshttps://t.co/mqQwVonBQQ Kate Black (@KateBlackDC) January 23, 2017Trump this weekend: 'Didn't see the point' for this Women's MarchTrump today: Reinstates Global Gag Rule, hurting women worldwide Matt McDermott (@mattmfm) January 23, 2017This is the vindictive asshole's idea of punishment for the women's march, I presume https://t.co/4830aPJIuB Dina/Alex (@SkulldelaCreme) January 23, 2017two days after the women's march and trump already reinstates the global gag rule .
Paige Calian (@paigecalz) January 23, 2017This is why we march Trump just reinstated the global gag rule on abortion and family planning.
https://t.co/v7YLBOS32G via @voxdotcom Daveon Coleman (@DaveonMarjan) January 23, 2017I'd bet my life that this is 100 percent retaliation for the Womens March https://t.co/yin1QVEveM#WomensMarch George D. (@xdelmar59) January 23, 2017Trump reinstates the gag rule = "revenge" on the women's march.
I think it is clearer than ever that his first impulse is revenge.
Gwendolyn Ann Smith (@gwenners) January 23, 2017millions of women around the world march in part for reproductive rights and two days later trump reinstates the global gag rule nasty woman (@kaarahoffmaan) January 23, 2017It's pretty clear that Trump reinstating the Global Gag Rule is directly in reaction to the Women's March that took place around the world.
Sepie (@sepiemoini) January 23, 2017Was this retaliation?
Well, many people are saying including a former British spy that Trump once paid some nice Russian ladies to pee on a bed for him because Obama had slept there at one point.
Past that, he has displayed an almost impressive level of vindictiveness in all of his dealings, ever.
Unfortunately, this is exactly the sort of thing we can expect from a small-minded, thin-skinned, bigoted bully who was handed too much power by a minority of the population and over the protests of more people than he was able to attract to his inauguration.Be sure to spend every day telling him to go fuck himself.
It s the only way we re going to get through this.Featured image by Joe Raedle via Getty Images/screengrab