The current occupant of the White House used to love to boast about his poll numbers until they started going south.
After thoroughly embarrassing our country by being a total d*ck to a NATO leader while in Brussels, Belgium today, he took to his Twitter account to tout a conservative pollster s findings.
Rasmussen Reports has a well known statistical bias toward Republicans, but even if we found them credible (they aren t), Trump s approval rating is still dismal.
Trump has to be really desperate to brag about a 48 percent approval rating.Thank you for your support.
Together, we will MAKE AMERICA SAFE AND GREAT AGAIN!#POTUSAbroad #USA??
pic.twitter.com/42vCwr5GkA Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 25, 2017Following former President Barack Obama s first 100 days, he garnered a 63% approval rating; 29 percent disapproval.
Trump has a 41 percent approval with a 55 percent disapproval rating, according to the American Presidency Project.A Fox News poll just released found that 40 percent of voters approve of the job Trump is doing that number is down from 45 percent last month.
Trump s disapproval is up 5 points to 53 percent.
Approval from Republicans is dropping.
A majority of those polled, 53 percent, thinks Trump s first few months in office shows his presidency is coming apart.
And Mike Pence s poll numbers are taking a dive, too.
Did we mention that that poll is from Fox News?Nate Silver at FiveThirtyEight shows how quickly Trump s approval rating has plummeted while his administration is inundated with scandals.Back to Trump s math problem.The Washington Post reports:In Pollster s running average, Trump is actually at 39.8 percent approval, worse than the 48 percent he touts.
In RealClearPolitics average, he does slightly better: 39.9 percent.The amateur president s approval rating after the first 100 days in office is historically low the lowest number at that point in a presidency ever recorded by pollsters.But sure, if Trump wants to brag about a conservative-leaning poll so that he can cherry pick numbers, even though the rating is still really bad, then who are we to stop him.Rasmussen has Trump at a 52 percent disapproval rating and he thinks that s a good thing.
Even by Rasmussen s findings, Obama polled far better.
Let that sink in for a moment.Photo by Brian Blanco/Getty Images