Sean Spicer s is having a very, very bad day.While the Jewish community celebrated Passover, Spicer claimed that Adolf Hitler never gassed people.
After immediate backlash, Spicer said he meant Hitler never gassed German citizens.
After another immediate backlash, Spicer said he meant Hitler never specifically bombed people with chemical weapons, merely gassed them in concentration camps (which he bizarrely called holocaust centers ).
By this point, he had proven his original point was nonsensical and still offensive, while also proving that he was a bad liar.It would take him a few more hours and a call from the Israeli government asking that he resign before he got around to begrudgingly apologizing.
And he managed to screw that up too.While speaking with CNN s Wolf Blitzer, Spicer claimed he didn t want his Hitler comments to be a distraction from Trump s efforts.
What efforts exactly?
Allow Spicer, seen here stepping on every metaphorical rake in the yard, to explain with characteristic rambling, jumbled sentences:I needed to make sure I clarified and not in any way, shape or form any more of a distraction from the president s decisive action in Syria and the attempts that he s making to destabilize the region.Sean accidentally just said the quiet part loud.
Oops.Wow: While apologizing for Hitler gaffe, Spicer literally says he doesn't want to distract from Trump's attempts "to destabilize the region" pic.twitter.com/jlCwC93Wn4 Tommy Christopher (@tommyxtopher) April 11, 2017Even Trump s own staff are quietly admitting to reporters that his Syrian policy is that he has no policy.
Some mistakenly thought his order to launch 59 missiles at a Syrian airbase was the start of some coherent plan, but that idea quickly fell apart.
Trump s son Eric would clear things up when he openly admitted Trump impulsively decided to issue the strike after his daughter Ivanka asked him to.Instead, Trump s Middle Eastern efforts continue to be haphazard and counterproductive.
Thanks to Spicer, we now know that somewhere in the deepest parts of their brains, this administration knows that.As an added bonus, here s Blitzer telling the White House Press Secretary how to correctly pronounce Assad s name after Spicer repeatedly botches it..@PressSec continues to be unable to pronounce Assad's name so Wolf kindly helps him out pic.twitter.com/iQNFxCDsFn Jon Passantino (@passantino) April 11, 2017Featured image via Twitter