Trump has the Left scrambling to figure out how they re going to stop the flow of illegal immigrants future Democrat voters into America.
The possibility that he will defeat Hillary in a landslide election is becoming more and more real every day The chairman of the huge media company Univision has coughed up $7 million to support Hillary Clinton, according to a report on the biggest donors to her presidential campaign.Haim Saban and his wife, described as liberal mega donors, are the Democratic front-runner s top donors, according to the campaign database OpenSecrets.org and its reporter Will Tucker.Saban is notable inside the Donald Trump campaign for canceling coverage of Trump s Miss USA pageant on the Spanish-language network after the Republican proposed a wall between the countries.Tucker revealed the information on Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson, which will air Sunday on Sinclair stations and online.By comparison, Trump s top donor gave $150,000, said the report.From the show s transcript, provided in advance to Secrets:Attkisson: Would people be surprised to know what s really going on behind some of these campaigns?
Tucker: I think they would.
And I think the data that we work with every day reflects kind of what people fear about the political system.
It reflects that very few people have an outside influence over the federal political system in the United States.
Tucker also found that Wall Street is Clinton s top donor.Below is the information and fuller transcript provided by Attkisson s show:Sharyl Attkisson: Who are Hillary Clinton s biggest industries and individuals giving to her or her Super PACs?
Will Tucker, Open Secrets: If you look at her campaign, what you ll see is very traditional Democratic sources of campaign funds: Education as an industry and lawyers and law firms, to be specific.
But if you factor in her Super PACs that are supporting her, securities and investment, what we consider to be Wall Street jumps up the list.
It is her number one donor industry.
Haim Sabin is one of the biggest supporters of Hillary Clinton s Priorities U.S.A. Action Super PAC.Sharyl: Who s Haim Saban?
Tucker: Haim Saban is the Chairman of a big media group.
He is a liberal mega donor, and has been for several years.
He s a very plugged in donor with the Clinton coalition.
Saban and his wife have supported Hillary Clinton to the tune of $7 million dollars.
Their giant media investment firm owns Univision.
That s the Spanish language TV network that cancelled plans to air Trump s Miss U.S.A. pageant after he said he d build a wall on Mexico s border and crack down on illegal immigration.
Sharyl: Would people be surprised to know what s really going on behind some of these campaigns?
Tucker: I think they would.
And I think the data that we work with every day reflects kind of what people fear about the political system.
For entire story: Washington Examiner