After months of mocking Hillary Clinton s stamina because she dared catch pneumonia during the presidential campaign, Donald Trump is reportedly so exhausted just three days into his nine day overseas trip that he s screwing up speeches and having his daughter Ivanka fill in.During a speech to Muslims in Saudi Arabia, Trump referred to Islamic extremism instead of Islamist extremism, as had been written.
While that may sound like a distinction without a difference, Reuters explains:The term Islamist extremism refers to Islamism as a political movement rather than Islam as a religion, a distinction that the Republican president had frequently criticized the administration of his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, for making.Trump often referred to Islamic extremism and criticized President Obama for using the term Islamist extremism.
But, because he is playing nicey nicey with the Saudis, he tried to modulate his rhetoric, but he failed.
His apparent exhaustion put him right back into campaign mode.On @POTUS deviating from prepared text on Islamist extremism to say Islamic extremism, admin official explains: Just an exhausted guy Mike Memoli (@mikememoli) May 21, 2017At a briefing with reporters a WH official said POTUS is exhausted.
https://t.co/0ll7Y4U1nt Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 21, 2017That wasn t the only symptom of his exhaustion.
Following the speech, Trump was supposed to appear at the Tweeps Forum.
Instead, he sent his daughter Ivanka.Trump is 70-years-old.
His diet consists of chocolate cake, double scoops of ice cream on top of cream pie, Kentucky Fried Chicken (and other fast food) and well done steak with ketchup.
As for exercise, well, he doesn t. He thinks exercise kills people.You d think he would be able to handle his nine day trip.
He claims he only needs three to four hours sleep a night.It s understandable that a man of his age and his fitness level would have trouble keeping up with the rigors of such an ambitious trip, but one can t help but note the hypocrisy, especially after saying this about Hillary Clinton: To be president of this country, you need tremendous stamina, Trump said in the first presidential debate.
You have to be able to negotiate our trade deals with Japan, with Saudi Arabia.
Source: Washington ExaminerTrump is just one country in and he s exhausted.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images