James O Keefe s Project Veritas reporters went undercover at CNN to investigate the #VeryFakeNews network to determine the motivation behind CNN s Trump-Russia collusion obsession.
Since the inauguration, CNN has mentioned Russian story nearly 16,000 times.Project Veritas reporters can be seen in the video below having a conversation with CNN s supervising producer John Bonifield.
The reporter talked to Bonifield first about the constant barrage of Trump-Russia stories on CNN.
Bonifield admitted that although CNN has no evidence or proof of Trump involvement with Russia, they continue to make it their top story on CNN simply for ratings and to make money.
Bonifield actually confessed to the undercover Project Veritas journalist that President Trump is correct when he says the media is on a witch hunt to take him down.
Bonifield told the reporter: I think the President is right to say, like, look you are witch hunting me You have no real smoking gun, you have no proof.
Bonifield told the undercover reporter for Project Veritas that CNN is biased and is playing to their audience by attacking President Trump, and actually admitted that Trump is good for business right now.
The Project Veritas reporter asked Bonifield, But honestly, you think the whole Russia shit is bullshit?
to which Bonifield replied: Could be bullshit.
I mean, it s mostly bullshit right now.
Like, we don t have any big, giant proof.
The way these leaks happen, they d leak it.
It d leak.
If it was something really good, it would leak.
President Trump took to Twitter this morning to call out CNN.
In his tweet, Trump hinted that Fake News CNN would likely be replacing the top brass at the dishonest and discredited network.
Trump also mentioned CNN s failing ratings, to which CNN Communications boasted that after months of reporting lies about a phony Trump-Russia collusion story, their ratings have actually increased.
In other words, because we dragged your name through the mud and falsely accused you of collusion with the Russians without a shred of evidence, our ratings have actually gone up with our liberal viewers who are desperate for any negative Trump news.
CNN just posted it's most-watched second quarter in history.
Those are the facts.
CNN Communications (@CNNPR) June 27, 2017President Trump didn t stop at calling out the OBVIOUS Very Fake News network CNN, he also asked when the other fake news networks would be exposed, specifically NBC, CBS, ABC, the New York Times and the Washington Post:So they caught Fake News CNN cold, but what about NBC, CBS & ABC?
What about the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost?
They are all Fake News!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 27, 2017