Yesterday, President-elect Donald Trump embarrassed himself yet again when he hit back at civil rights icon and Congressman John Lewis after the Democrat stated that he didn t consider Trump a legitimate president a sentiment that most Americans share.Just two days before Martin Luther King Day, Trump slammed Lewis on Twitter and said Lewis was all talk, no action : Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results.
All talk, talk, talk no action or results.
Sad.
Congressman John Lewis should finally focus on the burning and crime infested inner-cities of the U.S.
I can use all the help I can get!It was a disgusting statement to make about Lewis, who has been more involved in civil rights causes than most Americans and personally marched alongside Dr. King.
Trump immediately got blasted for his remarks, but the best response yet is coming from Lewis himself.
In a DNC fundraising email that was released last night, Lewis addressed Trump s ill-advised comments: Today Donald Trump attacked me on Twitter.
He said that I m all talk and no action.
I ve been beaten bloody, tear-gassed, fighting for what s right for America.
I ve marched at Selma with Dr. King.
Sometimes that s what it takes to move our country in the right direction.We refuse to stop now.
We re not done fighting for progress.
We re ready for the next four years.
Join me and chip in whatever you can today to help Democrats stand up to injustice.
The email stated that any funds donated would be split between Lewis re-election fund and the DNC.
You can read the full message below:John Lewis hitting Donald Trump back in fundraising email: I ve been beaten bloody, tear-gassed We refuse to stop now.
We re not done pic.twitter.com/wVyPfY1h09 Yamiche Alcindor (@Yamiche) January 14, 2017And Americans are using their money to tell Trump to sit the hell down.
Along with the increase of donations to Lewis fund, Trump s disgusting tweets also caused a massive surge in book sales for Lewis.
After Trump insulted Lewis, America responded by moving his 1999 biography, Walking with the Wind: A Memoir of the Movement from the No.
15,918 spot to No.
15 on Amazon s bestsellers list.
Sales spiked by nearly 106,020 percent!
That move alone showed Trump how wrong he was.
You don t go after a civil rights legend like Lewis and expect to get away with it.TwitterFeatured image via Zach Gibson and Alex Wong / Getty Images