Republicans like Maine Governor Paul LePage like to scare people with stories of black drug dealers corrupting our communities, but their own presidential nominee once went to great lengths to make sure a convicted cocaine trafficker received a light prison sentence.In 1985, Joseph Weichselbaum was indicted for drug trafficking.
But while the drug dealers under him were sentenced to serve 20 years in prison, Weichselbaum only had to serve 18 months because Donald Trump stepped in as a friend and apparently pulled some strings, according to Trump biographer David Cay Johnston.During an appearance on CNN on Saturday, Johnston told host Mike Smerconish all about how Trump met this cocaine trafficking creep, housed him, and protected him from getting the punishment he deserved.
Donald got his personal helicopter and the one for his casinos from a convicted felon who turned out to be a major drug trafficker, and instead of cutting ties with this guy, he kept him on, he rented him an apartment under very unusual circumstances as I described in the book, Johnston said.
He wrote a letter pleading for mercy for him, saying he was a stand-up guy.
The guy got 18 months while the people who actually delivered the drugs for him got 20 years.
And, by the way, the case came before at one point Judge Maryanne Trump Barry Donald s older sister.
This is the explosive story that could derail Trump s already imploding campaign.
And let s not forget that Trump has said that he would consider his sister for the Supreme Court.It s so explosive, in fact, that Trump supporter Betsy McCaughey didn t even bother to refute it.
Instead, she ignored it altogether and changed the subject by accusing Hillary Clinton of being a racist and claimed that Trump would make sure American workers get a higher take home pay even though Trump is supported by white supremacists and he fights constantly to make sure his workers can t unionize to fight for higher pay.Here s the video via YouTube.And it s not like Johnston isn t a credible source either.
He has covered Donald Trump for 28 years and is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist.
But you know that Trump supporters are going to call him a Hillary Clinton pawn.Speaking of Hillary Clinton, conservatives have been attacking her for defending an accused rapist in Arkansas in 1975.
But conservatives apparently need to be reminded that every person in this country has the right to a competent defense in court no matter what they did or are accused of doing.
It s kinda like how Founding Father John Adams defended the British soldiers who fired upon a crowd in Boston in 1770.
And while Hillary did not feel good about representing the alleged rapist, she was still obligated to do her job to the best of her ability after being assigned to the case by the judge.
It s the prosecuting attorney s job to put defendants in jail and the prosecutor failed to do so.
Hillary cannot be faulted for being a better lawyer.Trump, however, was not obligated to associate himself with a drug trafficker.
He did that voluntarily and continued to associate with Weichselbaum even after he was convicted, going so far as to make an effort to get him a light sentence for his crimes.Apparently, Trump s brand of law and order is that some defendants should be handicapped in court but if you re a friend of Trump even a drug trafficker can escape justice after being duly convicted in a court of law.
Just imagine how many convicts could escape justice under a President Trump who has the power to grant pardons.Featured image via Getty Images