Brace yourself for this, folks.
Trump foreign policy adviser Michele Bachmann has just returned from Jesusland, that little imaginary country that exists in her head where her brain should be, with some dire news.
Apparently, Supreme Overlord God Jergenson (we assume that s his last name anyway) is giving the people of the United States a choice between life and death this election, Trump or Clinton and if we don t choose life, well, there just won t be anymore elections.
Well, I don t want to be melodramatic but I do want to be truthful, Bachmann says melodramatically in an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network.
I believe without a shadow of a doubt this is the last election.
This is it.
This is the last election.
And the reason why I say that David is because it s a math problem, Bachmann tells interviewer David Brody.
It s a math problem of demographics and a changing United States.
If you look at the numbers of people who vote and who lives in the country and who Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton want to bring in to the country, this is the last election when we even have a chance to vote for somebody who will stand up for godly moral principles.
This is it.
Hillary Clinton I m not judging her spiritually or where she is at but we know where she s going to come down on Supreme Court justices, she s pro-Planned Parenthood.
She s for everything I m against.
I think it s very clear.
We ve got a day and night contrast, Bachmann says.And, of course, she s right.
Where Clinton is a classy, intelligent, grounded, sane human being, Bachmann is a vapid mess of a person who thinks The Lion King was gay propaganda and the Founding Fathers ended slavery (yes, seriously).Bachmann says she knows Trump can be a bit crude but urges people to get over it because Hillary Clinton is pure evil: This isn t even close between what Donald Trump stands for and espouses and what Hillary Clinton stands for and espouses.
People look at Trump and he can be coarse and a little crude and all the rest and I say, Get over it!
Get over it because what he is going to do is uphold religious liberty and advance the constitutional republic that our founders gave us.
According to Bachmann, Clinton has said herself that she is going to grant wholesale amnesty to people from the Third World who are here in the United States.
She says that the projected 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States is a fake number, then provided her own hipper, cooler fake number she got from Donald Trump about thirty to forty million illegal aliens currently in the United States.
What Hillary Clinton s ultimate goal is, is to secure her reelection, Bachmann says.
The very first thing she will do as President Hillary Clinton is this: she will have a wholesale amnesty so that Republicans will never again have the chance at winning Florida or Texas.
If we can t win Florida or Texas, it s game over.
From there, Clinton will ensure Republicans never win the White House by changing the demographics of the United States so that no Republican will ever win again.
But it s worse than that.
A Trump loss would so displease God that he d just kill us all anyway to prevent a Clinton presidency: God says to every nation for all of time, I set before you life and death, what are you going to choose?
If you look at the book of Genesis, you don t even have to get beyond Chapter 3 to see God gives us life.
The first thing he gives mankind is life.
What does man choose?
Death.
We choose rebellion and death.
You go from Genesis all through the Bible to the book of Revelation; man stupidly makes the same decision over and over again by rejecting life and choosing death.
What I m telling you is that s what we re looking at now in this country.
I know all of this sounds scary, but choose death this November unless, of course, you want to see the sort of life we would have under an insane racist who will likely throw us into nuclear war within his first 90 days.Watch the interview below:Featured image via screengrab