Ted Cruz got a brutal lesson in why he should keep his children out of politics on Wednesday night, when his daughter let slip a family secret during a live television interview.The Texas senator and GOP Presidential candidate appeared alongside his wife Heidi and two young daughters for a live Town Hall on CNN on Wednesday night.
During the interview, Cruz s daughter revealed that there is video footage of her father in women s underwear and a feather boa.
The pronouncement left Cruz visibly nervous and no doubt has his PR team doing some immediate damage limitation among Cruz s Evangelical base.The Cruz family was on stage with Anderson Cooper on Wednesday night, and the whole scene is a perfect reminder of the phrase: Never work with children or animals.
This week s Town Halls have placed their focus on the personal lives of the candidates more than the political views, and in a later segment of the event, Cruz began a harmless tale of a recent Daddy-Daughter picnic at school.
Thrilled with the reception, Cruz went a little further, in an attempt to up his credentials as a folksy, involved Dad telling them that he often plays dress up with his daughters.
She got to dress up Daddy in a pink boa and these like, big goofy-looking underwear he grinned at his daughter Caroline.However, Caroline then chimed in with a revelation that left the Senator briefly stumped.
And [inaudible] it was on a videotape the whole time, she said, as millions of Americans watched the scene unfold from home.
And that was a class video that they re sending out to all the parents.
Cruz could only muster a brief Oh oh.
while Heidi attempted to prevent her daughter revealing anything else ad lib.
While host Cooper can t withhold a laugh, the audience is clearly as uncomfortable as the Cruz parents.
You can almost hear Ted sending out a prayer to his Lord and PR team to double, triple and quadruple check that if that video footage exists, it gets disappeared immediately.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=40fYlwHFCRgWe at Addicting Info suspect that far from Caroline making a naive PR stumble here, it might actually be a brutal attack of revenge for this campaign moment a while back.It s beginning to look like Caroline is reminding her father that if he continues to try and milk her for political ends, she will continue to kick him firmly where it hurts.Featured image via screen capture