Incapable of putting his f*cking phone down during an important overseas trip, Donald Trump embarrassed our country again by going on a tirade on Twitter.Hours ahead of a meeting with Russian dictator Vladimir Putin, Trump chose to post a rant on Twitter rather than prepare for what could end up being a disastrous exchange with the man who ordered the interference in the 2016 Election.My experience yesterday in Poland was a great one.
Thank you to everyone, including the haters, for the great reviews of the speech!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 7, 2017Just to recap, Trump s speech included white supremacist code words such as western values.
Trump also insulted the Polish people by downplaying the horrific experiences they suffered during World War II.On top of that, Trump attacked President Obama during a press conference and was snubbed by the Polish First Lady when he tried to shake her hand.
Trump s visit to Poland was embarrassing, not great.
Trump then claimed that everyone is talking about Hillary Clinton s emails at the G-20.Everyone here is talking about why John Podesta refused to give the DNC server to the FBI and the CIA.
Disgraceful!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 7, 2017This is incredibly doubtful.
World leaders have way more important things to talk about.
It s likely that Trump is the only one talking about Hillary s emails while the rest of the attendees are concerned with how Trump s meeting with Putin will affect Europe and NATO.
After all, Trump still owes his puppet master a favor for putting him in the White House.Trump then ended his hissy fit by attacking the media.I will represent our country well and fight for its interests!
Fake News Media will never cover me accurately but who cares!
We will #MAGA!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 7, 2017This tweet actually contradicts his earlier tweet about his Poland speech.
Trump thanks everyone, including the haters, for the great reviews of his speech.
Now he is bitching because the media is allegedly covering him inaccurately.
Which is it?Of course, Twitter users humiliated Trump for his outburst.Trump, nobody in Poland cares about your conspiracy theories on why you lost the popular vote.
Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) July 7, 2017You ve already made America the world s laughing stock, and you re still obsessed with #fakenews instead of, say, climate change.
Why?
pic.twitter.com/r4A3w3LzKX Jack Schofield (@jackschofield) July 7, 2017The decline in the world s opinion of you and therefore of the USA is catastrophic compared with the huge respect for @POTUS44 pic.twitter.com/KRyo10sL31 Jack Schofield (@jackschofield) July 7, 2017Donald Trump is a complete joke.
He can t even go to the G-20 without being totally obsessed with attacking Hillary Clinton and the media.Featured Image: Steve Pope/Getty Images