Until November 8, Democrats desperately tried to dismiss the prediction of presidential historian Allan Lichtman, who has accurately predicted every presidential election for the last 30 years.
Unfortunately, it turned out polls were wrong and he was completely right.Lichtman has a second part to his prediction, though.
While he accurately called the fact that Trump would win the White House, he s now predicting that he will just as quickly lose it through impeachment.While his electoral prediction was based on a scientific system, his latest prediction is not.
It s a gut call, but let s call his an educated gut.
His main argument is the baggage that Trump is carrying with him to the Oval Office.
But it has a few reasons behind it.
What you see [with Trump] is what you get: candidates don t fundamentally change.
Donald Trump throughout his life has played fast and loose with the law.
He was found by the justice department in the seventies to have discriminated against African Americans with his real estate business.
This video is a couple of days old, so Lichtman didn t know that Trump would be settling the Trump University fraud case that s been hanging over his head, but that s far from the only scandal.
While that alleged victim in the child rape case dropped the charges, Gloria Allred, the alleged victim s attorney, said the story isn t over yet.All of this, though, might just be an excuse to get rid of Trump.
Trump is a wildcard and if there s anything Republicans can t stand, it s unpredictable behavior.
Republicans love control and they would love to see Mike Pence, the vice president, as president because he is predictable and controllable.
Pence is anti-choice and anti-gay.
Trump keeps changing his opinions on those issues.
That type of moral uncertainty doesn t sit well with the ber religious Republican Party.Here s the video:Of course, if Trump is impeached, that would leave us with a President Pence.
Trust me when I say that s no better.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images