It seems that Donald Trump s spiritual advisor is exactly as ethical as he is.
Paula White, a prosperity gospel minister who prayed at The Donald s inauguration, has regularly been criticized by Trump s evangelical followers as a charlatan who essentially sells tickets to Heaven and other God-related non-products.White sells, for instance, a resurrection seed a delivery from a spiritual death sentence for $1,144 (a number that was totally chosen by God).
But apparently, the money she scams from her people by selling a la carte divine services isn t quite enough for White.Hector Gomez, who was a pastor at White s former Without Walls ministry in the 90 s, told HeatStreet that he once saw the Christian huckster cherrypicking the offering plate:Hector Gomez, a pastor who worked at Without Walls from 1993 to 2000, told Heat Street that on several occasions, Paula and Randy White invited people to put not only money in the offering plate but valuables, too.
Darryl Strawberry, the famed outfielder, once caused a stir by putting his World Series ring in the offering plate and donating it to the church, Randy White told ESPN in 2009.
People would give them jewelry, diamonds, watches, Gomez said.
One day, he said, he watched in horror as Paula White sifted through the collection plate after church, picking out the jewelry that looked valuable.White told him to take the less valuable collections to a jeweler who bought second-hand pieces to resell or melt down, he said; he watched her lock up the more valuable jewelry in her desk, and he never saw it again.Gomez said he felt ethically uncomfortable reselling congregants jewelry.
Not only was he unsure about what became of the most valuable items collected, he said; he also felt uneasy asking people for treasured jewelry, especially after his own wife donated a bracelet he d given her when they first got married.
It wasn t worth much, Gomez said.
It was a nice little bracelet.
But it has sentimental value.
He said he thought about that bracelet as he watched White sort through the jewelry.
I was so grieved.
I was like, This belongs to the people in the church.
They worked very hard.
Trump says that he surrounds himself with the very best people but that phrase is quickly proving to be synonymous with huckster.
Here s a video of her selling salvation for your viewing displeasure:Featured image via screengrab