Donald Trump keeps saying that all the women who have come forward alleging that he acted in a sexually inappropriate way toward them are liars.
However, the stories are remarkably similar, and they reflect Trump s own words on the now-infamous Access Hollywood tape where he bragged to then-host Billy Bush about sexually assaulting women.
Well, on Thursday, those issues deepened, as a 12th woman came forward.Ninni Laaksonen once held the title of Miss Finland.
Speaking with Finnish tabloid Ilta-Sanomat, she says that Trump touched her rear end inappropriately in 2006, where the pageant participants were doing an episode of The Late Show with David Letterman.
Laaksonen says: Before the show we were photographed outside the building.
Trump stood next to me and suddenly he squeezed my butt.
He really grabbed my butt.
I don t think anybody saw it but I flinched and thought, What is happening?
What is most interesting here is the fact that this young woman didn t go out of her way to go public with these allegations.
The paper she spoke with, which is supposedly the second-biggest publication in all of Finland, went looking for women in the nation who had histories with Trump.
That is how Laaksonen was found, which makes her allegations against Trump all the more credible.
She didn t go looking to attach her name to this scandal unfolding in the United States presidential election, but that is what happened, just because she chose to be brave.Perhaps the grossest part of all of this is what Laaksonen says someone told her regarding Trump s attraction to her: Somebody told me there that Trump liked me because I looked like Melania when she was younger.
This is just disgusting.
The GOP really should be addressing this with the public.
They are literally trying to put a sexual predator in the Oval Office.
This just goes to show that they do not care about the women of this country, or about the nation itself at all.
They care about their party and their careers, and that s it.Hopefully, more women are found between now and election day, and they won t be able to be ignored.Featured image via screen capture