Immediately after Donald Trump won the election, Americans saw a rise in harassment and hate crimes at the hands of his angry, privileged supporters.
Unfortunately, these bigotry-fueled attacks haven t died down since the post-election chaos, and Trump supporters are still leaving their mark on this country in the most vile of ways.Recently, a white Trump supporter in Florida was charged with battery for attacking a Hispanic man.
As if that wasn t disturbing enough, the man personally dedicated the attack to his President-elect, putting into perspective just how dangerous Trump s divisive campaign rhetoric was.According to the police report, Caleb Joseph Illig drove into the parking lot at a Gate Food Post store in Gainsville at around 1:10 a.m.
The victim, Pablo Echevarria, had been cleaning the parking lot when he was brutally attacked by Illig, who shouted Let s Trump down as he started punching Echevarria in the back of the head.
When Echevarria asked Illig why he was being attacked, Illig uttered these terrifying words: This is for Donald Trump.
According to the charging document, Echevarria didn t fight back and instead tried to prevent further injury by using evasive movements.
Echevarria was rescued from further attack when another employee got involved and Illig fled.
After the attack, Echevarria told police that he was experiencing pain in the back of his head and neck, although it is not clear if he was treated for these injuries.When police checked the security cameras to check Echevarria s claims, they found that the footage clearly shows [Illig] striking [Echevarria] in the back of the head, and completely corroborates the [victim] and [witness ] accounts of the incident.
When Illig was confronted about the incident, he told police officers that he had no recollection of the incident whatsoever and tried to blame his disgusting behavior on a mental disorder and alcohol.
He has only been charged with simple battery.Noting that this was a politically-motivated hate crime, Officer Ben Tobias commented on the effects of the election on the community: Just looking at election results, the community is divided almost 50/50.
It s not just here in Gainesville.
I d like to think we re doing better, but we re having our own problems crop up.
People like Illig are everywhere now, and they re not afraid to be openly racist now that Trump has given them their voice.
This is what Trump meant by Make America Great Again , and it is terrifying.Featured image via Facebook