When Donald Trump first announced that he was running for the White House, no one took him seriously.
We all laughed and joked about it, thinking it might be entertaining to watch his train wreck of a campaign for a few months before the other candidates left him in the dust.
We watched him make racist, misogynistic, hateful remarks and didn t think he would last, but here we are he managed to become the Republican nominee.
Recognizing that we need to do something about that, President Barack Obama has a message for Americans.In an interview with TODAY s Savannah Guthrie, Obama doubled down on the dangers of Trump getting into the White House.
Several months ago, it seemed that Obama was brushing off Trump s campaign just like the rest of us, but that has all changed as we near the general election.
When asked if Trump could win, Obama didn t sugarcoat it for Americans when he said, anything is possible Obama s comments didn t come without a few jabs at The Donald, as the President hammered the business mogul for being a pathological liar.
Obama said, He is someone that likes attention, he surprised himself that he got this far.
As far as the threat of living under a President Trump, Obama said, I ve seen all kinds of crazy stuff happen but overall stressed that America is resilient.
But just because America might survive 4-8 years of Donald Trump does not mean that we should give him the chance to undo all of our progress and threaten our country s future.
Obama stressed the importance of electing Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in November, and urged all Democratic voters to take this election very seriously.
Obama said: So, my advice to Democrats and I don t have to give this advice to Hillary Clinton, because she already knows it is you stay worried until all those those votes are cast and counted because you know, one of the dangers in an election like this is that people don t take the challenge seriously.
They stay home.
And we end up getting the unexpected.
You can watch Obama s interview below:Obama s comments to voters reflect the tone of the Democratic National Convention this week, as voters are urged to stay hungry and keep working hard right up to November.
For the voters that are upset that Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders was not selected as the nominee, Obama s message is especially for them.
We can t afford to be upset.
We can t afford to be so upset that we sit this election out.
The stakes are too high.
We cannot give our country to a sociopath and bigot like Donald Trump because he will destroy it.
Regardless of who you voted for in the primaries, we need to move on and do everything to prevent Trump from getting into the White House.
Every vote for Clinton counts.Featured image is a screenshot