By now, everyone is aware of the appallingly abusive way in which White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer treated American Urban Radio Correspondent April Ryan during Tuesday s White House Press briefing.
All Ryan was doing was, well, HER JOB, and asking about the cloud of Russia investigations hanging over the embattled Trump Administration.
This caused Sean Spicer to completely lose it, and launch into condescending, sexist, and racist attacks on Ryan.After the press availability was over, Ryan spoke with MSNBC s Katy Tur about her experience, addressing the accusation from Sean Spicer that she was pushing an agenda rather than just reporting the facts.
Ryan told Tur: I don t have an agenda.
We ve never seen anything like this before and my question was simple, how do you change the perception problem?
And it went off into this Russian dressing, no shaking my head or whatever.
You cannot ignore, as a reporter, there are issues on Capitol Hill.
You have investigations going.
You have the head of the intel committee coming here to the White House briefing people, the president himself.
I understand what Sean is doing trying to make this administration look better than what it does right now.
And unfortunately, I was roadkill today.
No matter what Sean Spicer s job is, he had not right to treat April Ryan that way.
She was just doing her job.
If he can t handle tough questions, he should find another line of work.
To flat-out deny all of those investigations, and to accuse the press of being at fault for the fact that the criminal activity that is clearly taking place inside the Trump White House is a huge story is truly beyond the pale.
Until they come clean about the Russia business, this will continue to be a story.
The White House Press Corp would derelict in their duties if they didn t continue to press Spicer on this.Good on you for being a superb member of the Fourth Estate, Ms. Ryan.
You handled Spicer s abuse with grace and dignity.
Believe me, he s the one who comes out looking worse for wear on this one.Watch the video below, via Real Clear Politics:Featured image via video screen capture