Reince Priebus, the soon-to-be ex-chairman of the RNC and Trump s new chief of staff, went on television to justify one of Trump s biggest lies since getting elected.
Last week, Trump alleged that millions had voted illegally in the presidential election after he heard that Jill Stein was seeking recounts in three states.
That s a serious claim to make and he made it without basis whatsoever.
Priebus, though, apparently doesn t care that s a lie, and went on national television to hold it up as some kind of bizarre example.CBS Face the Nation host, John Dickerson, asked Priebus about that claim and even pointed out that there s no evidence that millions voted illegally.
Priebus played all innocent in his support of Trump at first: Well I don t know if that s not true, John.
I mean, there was an article in the Wall Street Journal the other day and it had a certain percentage of people voting that shouldn t be voting.
There are estimates all over the map on that, and here s the problem no one really knows.
But Dickerson wasn t done.
He also asked this: When you re president, can you just offer a theory that has no evidence behind it, or does he have to tighten up his standards of proof?
He should have to tighten up his standards of proof, but Priebus may well be afraid he ll lose his new job as one of Trump s lap dogs if he criticizes him at all.
So here s Priebus vigorously defending Trump s lies: I think he s done a great job.
I think the president-elect is someone who has pushed the envelope and caused people to think in this country.
He s not taking conventional thought on every single issue and has caused people to look at things that maybe they have taken for granted.
So basically, it s okay for Trump to lie or say things no president should say because it starts national conversations.
It s okay for us to have a president who lies because it makes people think in ways they might not otherwise.Way to go, America.
Watch Priebus full segment below:Featured image via screen capture from embedded video