The National Rifle Association (NRA) has been very vocal about their belief that guns are totally not a problem in America.
You can often find the group posting things on Twitter and Facebook about how awesome and safe firearms are.
They contribute millions and millions of dollars to Republican candidates to spread this wonderfully false message about their weapons of freedom.
So, when a school shooting happened in Madison, Ohio on Monday we looked at their social networking accounts to see what the organization had to say about the incident and we found: Nothing.A 14-year-old boy walked into Madison Junior/Senior High School during lunch on Monday and opened fire with a .380 caliber semi-automatic handgun.
Two boys, 14 and 15, were hit with freedom projectiles and two other students were injured during the panic that ensued after the shooting.One student, Shelby Kinnin, was sitting at the table next to where the shooting occurred and described what she saw: I heard the gunshot go off and then I saw one of the kids go down and grab their leg and fall.
And then everybody running out of the building.
I didn t know what it was at first, I thought maybe it was a chip bag, but then I thought that s too loud for a chip bag to pop.
The shooter ran out of the school afterward and police used a K-9 to find him.
He was arrested and charged with two counts of attempted murder, two counts of felonies assault, making terroristic threats and inducing panic.It s really not that surprising that the NRA is ignoring the latest in a long list of school shootings.
For one thing, the police have not yet said how this kid got his hands on a gun, but he is 14-years-old.
How many different ways can a child get a gun?
He either took it from some Second Amendment, NRA-worshipping family member or he managed to buy it (not very likely) from someone who stole it from some other person who believes the only way to have freedom is to own penile extensions.Of course, they are going to keep quiet.
They can t say anything without sounding like the imbeciles that they are.
And if for some reason they do decide to address this, the statement will sound like, Well, this is why we shouldn t have gun free zones!
Because in the underdeveloped mind of an ammosexual MOAR GUNZ!
is always the answer.Thankfully, no kids were killed this time, but these children will likely have emotional scars for the rest of their lives.
And the shooter will likely spend a very long time in prison for something that could have been prevented if adults had acted responsibly.Watch: Featured image via video screenshot