Hillary Clinton always putting a radical ideology and her own personal financial gain before the best interests of America.
Is this really the kind of leader America needs after 8 miserable, lawless years of Barack Obama?
Under two terms of a President Hillary Clinton, the U.S. Muslim population would exceed Germany s current Muslim population, according to data from Pew Research Center and the Department of Homeland Security.According to a Pew report published earlier this week, as of 2010, there were 4.8 million Muslims in Germany.
In September, 2015, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton that the United States should accept 65,000 refugees from Syria to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis created by the war there.
We re facing the worst refugee crisis since the end of World War II and I think the United States has to do more, the former secretary of state said Sunday on CBS Face the Nation.
I would like to see us move from what is a good start with 10,000 to 65,000 and begin immediately to put into place the mechanisms for vetting the people that we would take in.
Via: CBS NewsHere s Trump on the out-of-control refugee crisis and common sense ideas on how he thinks America should deal with it:A Pew report from January of this year estimated that there are roughly 3.3 million Muslims living in the United States.
This means that today the U.S. already has a larger Muslim population than does Kuwait, or Brunei, or Bahrain, or Djibouti, or Qatar.
Under current policy, Pew projects the number of Muslims in America will outnumber Jews by 2040.
However, under a President Hillary Clinton it s possible that date could come much sooner.Under two terms of a Hillary Clinton presidency, the U.S. would have a Muslim population that is larger than Germany s Muslim population of 4.8 million.Based on the most recent DHS data available, the U.S. permanently resettled roughly 149,000 migrants from predominantly Muslim countries on green cards in 2014.Yet, as Donald Trump explained during Thursday night acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention, Clinton has called for a radical 550% increase in Syrian refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country under President Obama.
Specifically, Clinton had said that, as president, she would expand Muslim migration by importing an additional 65,000 Syrian refugees into the United States during the course of a single fiscal year.
Clinton has made no indication that she would limit her proposed Syrian refugee program to one year.As Trump explained, Clinton s Syrian refugees would come on top of the tens of thousands of refugees the U.S. already admits from Muslim countries.Adding Clinton s 65,000 Syrian refugees to the approximately 149,000 Muslim migrants the U.S. resettled on green cards in the course of one year, means that Clinton could permanently resettle roughly 214,000 Muslim migrants in her first year as President.
If Clinton were to continue her Syrian refugee program throughout her Presidency, she could potentially resettle roughly 1.5 million Muslim migrants during her first two terms.These projections suggest that after seven years of a Hillary Clinton Presidency, the U.S. could have a Muslim population that is larger than Germany s Muslim population of 4.8 million.These projections are rough estimates, and the population size could be impacted by additional various factors including births, deaths, and conversions.
Via: Breitbart News