After revelations from the CIA that Russians interfered with our country s presidential election in order to help Donald Trump win the keys to the White House, electors are seeking more information on the hack by a hostile foreign power.
Ten Electoral College electors penned an open letter to ask U.S. intelligence officials for more information on ongoing investigations into Trump s relationship with Russia.The group of electors, including the daughter of House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), wrote the letter to Director of National Intelligence James Clapper asking for the information ahead of their Dec. 19th meeting in which they are to formally vote for the next president.
The Electors require to know from the intelligence community whether there are ongoing investigations into ties between Donald Trump, his campaign or associates, and Russian government interference in the election, the scope of those investigations, how far those investigations may have reached, and who was involved in those investigations, the letter states.
We further require a briefing on all investigative findings, as these matters directly impact the core factors in our deliberations of whether Mr. Trump is fit to serve as President of the United States.
Allegations that Donald Trump was receiving assistance from a hostile foreign power to win the election began months before Election Day, the letter continues.
When presented with information that the Russian government was interfering in the election through the course of the campaign, both in private briefings and public assessment, Donald Trump rejected it, refused to condemn it, and continued to accept their help.
Donald Trump even made a direct plea to the Russian government to interfere further in the election in a press conference on July 27, saying, Russia, if you re listening, I hope you re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing.
The letter also notes:Russian government officials revealed that they had maintained contact with the Trump campaign during the election, and stated that they were familiar with most of the individuals associated with Mr. Trump.Media inquiries into whether the FBI was investigating Donald Trump s July plea for Russian interference in the election resulted in a Glomar response neither confirming nor denying the existence of an investigation, rather than the more typical response of denying the request outright.U.S.
intelligence officials reportedly probed Trump foreign policy advisor Carter Page in regard to travel to his Moscow during the campaign.The FBI reportedly began an inquiry into Trump associates following reports of a multi-million dollar business relationship with pro-Putin figures in Ukraine and Russia, and reports of an effort to sway American public opinion in favor of Ukraine s pro-Putin government.Michael Flynn, Trump campaign aide and the announced incoming National Security Advisor, traveled to Russia in December of 2015 for a gala event celebrating RT, a state-controlled propaganda network, at which he was seated next to Russian President Vladimir Putin.The letter is signed by nine Democrats and one Republican.
If Trump is sworn into office, his administration will be the most compromised in U.S. history.
This whole situation is such a hot mess that a former CIA operative said that the U.S. may have to vote again.Photo via Drew Angerer/Getty