MOSCOW (Reuters) - Pyongyang does not plan to hold any talks with Washington about its nuclear program, a senior North Korean diplomat said on Friday, declaring that possessing nuclear weapons was a matter of life and death for North Korea, the RIA news agency reported.
Tension has soared on the peninsula following a series of weapons tests by North Korea and a string of increasingly bellicose exchanges between U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
Trump, in a speech last month at the United Nations, threatened to totally destroy North Korea if necessary to defend itself and allies and called the North s leader a rocket man on a suicide mission.
Choe Son-hui, director-general of the North American department of North Korea s foreign ministry, told a non-proliferation conference in Moscow Washington would have to put up with North Korea s nuclear status, RIA reported.
This is a matter of life and death for us.
The current situation deepens our understanding that we need nuclear weapons to repel a potential attack.
We will respond to fire with fire.
Pyongyang would regard any attempts to strangle the country via U.N. Security Council sanctions as an attempt to declare war .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, addressing the same conference earlier on Friday, urged world powers to get behind a joint Russian-Chinese roadmap for settling the crisis over North Korea s weapons program.
We are convinced that its implementation will promote the lessening of military activity and tension on the Korean peninsula and the forming in Northeastern Asia of a system of equal and indivisible security, he said.
The plan proposes a moratorium on North Korea s missile and nuclear weapons tests, while South Korea and the United States suspend holding military exercises.
The main task at the current stage is to prevent a military conflict which will inevitably lead to a large-scale humanitarian, economic and ecological catastrophe, Lavrov said.
All the sides involved should exercise restraint.