Trump s current national security adviser, General Michael Flynn, is already in some serious hot water over his mishandling of classified info (you know, the stuff that Republicans insist Hillary should be punished for).
The Washington Post actually first broke this story via official documents from the U.S. Army, but, of course, Flynn s son wasn t having it.Flynn, Jr., also jumped on the increasingly meaningless fake news bandwagon to try and disparage the Post s findings.
Flynn s tweets are protected; however, both The Wrap and The Daily Dot obtained a copy.
His tweet read: Another article by the failing FAKE news that is the Compost..should they continue to operate when they continue to get everything so wrong?
Compost?
He thinks he s funny.
That s cute.
Flynn, Jr., stands by his father s integrity (or lack thereof) even when he s the one putting forth fake news.
What he failed to realize is that the link in his tweet goes straight to those Army documents, not to the Post s story.Nice job shooting yourself in the foot there, Junior.Lachlan Markay, of the Free Beacon, and formerly of the not-at-all liberal Heritage Foundation, shows how the younger Flynn has to eat his own words by pointing out the glaring mistake out for all to see:Mike, this link goes to internal US Army documents, not a news article https://t.co/EdE0EIJIV1 Lachlan Markay (@lachlan) December 14, 2016It seems that the term fake news only refers to news that disagrees with a person s already-established narrative, rather than made-up facts and stories, like it did when it referred to the true fake news stories out of Macedonia, and from conspiracy sites.Flynn, Jr. was actually fired from Trump s transition team after he pushed the Pizzagate conspiracy theory.
If that s what he was really fired for, then it shows a modicum of sense, but the fact that he was even on the team at all actually underscores the conspiracy-theorist nature of Donald Trump and the people he s willing to work with.Only people who hate that the press is actually uncovering bad things would consider the Washington Post to be fake news.
Trump is appointing people to his cabinet that have no clue what they re doing, and can t be bothered to do even the minutest bit of research into anything.
Just like Cheetolini himself.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images