Republican members of Congress, who love claiming that they re the only party that stands for real Americans, are now terrified of their own constituents.
This is happening for one simple reason they never expected their own constituents to be angry with what they re doing on Capitol Hill.
So instead of facing the music and admitting that the entire GOP platform is something Americans don t want, they re running scared.Such is the case with Idaho representative Raul Labrador.
His office had the audacity to file a complaint against a group of people made up primarily of senior citizens because they were showing up at his office in Lewiston on a weekly basis to voice their displeasure with him and the GOP.
Labrador obviously considers this a threat, and perhaps, if they d threatened violence it would be.But that s not what s happening.
Chris Ankeny, the chief of police in Lewiston, the Idaho town where this is taking place, says these people were protesting in front of Labrador s offices and that no crimes had been committed.
Employees are uncomfortable with them because of the national attention this group had garnered, not because of credible (or even in-credible) threats.Labrador s office contacted the D.C. Capitol Police over this because that force has jurisdiction over U.S. Congresspeople s offices in addition to Capitol Hill.
They did so because they felt the Lewiston department wasn t doing anything.
The thing is, a good police department won t do anything when they confirm that there s no crime happening (including threats).
So what this is is an office full of people who can t handle dissent.The worst part is that this group has so many seniors, and Labrador won t hear them.
These are people who may be worried about cuts to programs they depend on, including Medicare and Meals on Wheels.
Others living in and around Lewiston are worried about climate change and clean energy.
They say Labrador s absence from his offices is a sign of cowardice, and they re not wrong.
He is a coward.Many Republicans have run away and hidden from their constituents lately because they can t tolerate the fact that their constituents concerns run counter to the GOP s platform.
They re too used to putting party above country.
Maybe this is uncharted territory for them, but shouldn t these guys, who work for the very people they re pissing off, actually stop to listen?Or are they not what they ve been trying to sell to us?It s really disgusting that Labrador s office feels so threatened by non-violent, non-threatening protests from senior citizens that they ve had to file a complaint.Featured image by Gage Skidmore.
Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Flickr