Trump s Department of Justice has finally figured out they re stupid in one instance, at least.
Back in January, a member of Code Pink named Desiree Fairooz laughed during Jeff Sessions confirmation hearing, was charged with disorderly conduct, found guilty, and faced up to a full year in prison for it.
A D.C. court tossed out her conviction and set a new trial, but now the DOJ has dropped the case entirely:Here s the Justice Department s notice it s dropping charges against woman who laughed at Jeff Sessions during his confirmation hearing.
pic.twitter.com/Dv5vqzxdPA Dominic Holden (@dominicholden) November 7, 2017Fairooz own reaction to the news says it all about the stupidity of this endeavor:Just received this, Governments Notice of Nolle Prosequi What a relief!
Guess they ve got enough laughing matters to deal with!
Desiree Fairooz (@desireefairooz) November 6, 2017She laughed because she felt Senator Shelby s overly-syrupy remarks about Sessions alleged record of treating everyone equally were as ridiculous as they sound.
Sessions treats people anything but equally and he has a long track record of that.
Code Pink s campaign director said Fairooz laughter was a reflex action more than anything, which actually does make a lot of sense.
Fairooz herself didn t mean to actually laugh, but she did say: I felt it was my responsibility as a citizen to dissent at the confirmation hearing of Senator Jeff Sessions, a man who professes anti-immigrant, anti-LGBT policies, who has voted against several civil rights measures and who jokes about the white supremacist terrorist group the Ku Klux Klan.
That s the whole problem, though: The Trump administration doesn t want dissent.
And while it s true that Fairooz had several prior arrests for protesting, the number of cases publicly brought against dissenters of this administration is absolutely astonishing.
This is a victory for all who stand for what s right which is the opposite of what Trump s administration stands for.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images