Hillary Clinton appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live on Monday night and absolutely killed it.Jimmy Kimmel has spent a lot of time on his show mocking Donald Trump, so it was only natural for him to talk to the Democratic nominee about him.The first segment of the interview was dedicated entirely to discussing the imploding Republican nominee.Right after Hillary sat down Kimmel remarked that the crowd was cheering quite enthusiastically for the co-founder of ISIS, which drew laughter from the former Secretary of State, who replied that the claim was one of the crazier things that Trump has said during his campaign.And with all the ridiculous things Trump has said on the campaign trail, Kimmel asked if she gets upset.
I don t get upset anymore, Clinton said, because I d be upset all the time.
Hillary pointed out that Trump s rhetoric is music to the terrorists ears because they would love to influence our elections in any way they can.
It also gives them advertising material to use to draw new recruits.Considering Trump s unpredictability and insanity throughout his run for the presidency, Kimmel wondered how Hillary is preparing to debate him, which drew a very interesting and hilarious response.
I watched a lot of his debates during the primaries and he insulted all of his opponents, he insulted all the moderators, he insulted, I guess about 80 percent of the American people and the rest of the world You gotta be prepared for all the wacky stuff that comes at you.
I am drawing on my experience in elementary school.
Kimmel also asked Hillary about her health and the claims of Trump and his team that she is unfit to serve because she is not well.
Hillary compared Trump s attack to a tabloid story, remarking that the National Enquirer once said she would be dead in six months, but that was a long time ago and she s still full of life.
I don t know why they are saying this, Clinton said.
I think on the one hand, it s part of the wacky strategy.
Just say all these crazy things and maybe you can get some people to believe you.
On the other hand, it just absolutely makes no sense.
I don t go around questioning Donald Trump s health.
Kimmel then challenged her to open a pickle jar to prove her fitness, and she opened it.Hillary then admitted that she had hoped to be running against someone more serious and qualified to do the job of President of the United States.
I would prefer to be running against somebody who I thought was qualified to be president and temperamentally fit to be commander-in-chief I don t think we ve ever been confronted with somebody who we see right now in the midst of this election is unqualified and temperamentally unfit.
Hillary went on to name three Republicans who have endorsed her and praised their decision to put country first.And at the end of the interview, she read some mean quotes uttered by Donald Trump.
But she refused to read the one of Trump saying he would date his own daughter.This was an excellent interview for Hillary Clinton.
She dispelled the rampant falsehoods being pushed by Trump and his minions while at the same time showing the American people that she is a positive person who is qualified for the office she seeks.
Now it s just a matter of waiting for the thin-skinned Trump to throw a hissy fit about on Twitter.Featured image via Screenshot