Heads are spinning since President Trump and Vlad Putin shook hands today at the APEC Summit in Vietnam.
CNN is already trying to cause trouble with manufactured conflict about whether the two leaders will have formal or informal meetings.
They ll probably concoct some spy story or some scandal about the meeting between the two leaders.
The left will stop at nothing to try and destroy President Trump but his overseas trip has been a huge success so far.
The president is on the fourth day of his 5 day overseas trip.
First Lady Melania Trump remained in China to visit the Beijing Zoo and the Great Wall of ChinaCNN ALREADY STIRRING IT UP:CNN immediately started stirring things up with questions about a meeting and if the two leaders were having formal or informal meetings.
They even questioned whether the Trump camp was misleading the press on a meeting Drama?
No Drama at all unless you count the manufactured drama from CNN:CNN indicated that Sarah Sanders statement contradicts what the Russian side told reporters for the last two days, adding to the drama around how Trump and Putin will interact at the international summit.The possibility of a Trump and Putin meeting has hung over the economic summit, with any interaction formal or informal threatening to overshadow the President s lengthy trip through Asia.
The possible interaction would come amid a series of investigations into Russia s meddling in the 2016 election, an issue that has plagued the Trump administration for months.NEWSWEEK ALSO CHIMED IN WITH DRAMA: Why Doesn t Trump want to meet with Putin?
Wrapped in obfuscations and contradictions, President Donald Trump s second meeting with Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin is becoming the Schr dinger s cat of political parlays.
It is both definitely happening, and dead in its tracks.THEY MEET!U.S.
President Donald Trump and Russia s Vladimir Putin shook hands at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit dinner in Vietnam on Friday, even though the White House said there would be no formal meeting.Trump and Putin smiled and stood next to each other for the traditional group photograph.
Then they parted to sit at different parts of the table.The White House said earlier that no formal meeting was planned because of scheduling conflicts on both sides, though it was possible they would bump into each other.
In terms of a scheduled, formal meeting, there s not one on the calendar and we don t anticipate that there will be one, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters minutes before landing in Danang.The main meeting of leaders from APEC countries is on Saturday in the Vietnamese resort city of Danang.
Trump is on the fourth leg of a 12-day tour of Asia.Read more: Yahoo News