A pastor shamefully lied in defense of Donald Trump on Saturday and Joy Reid shut him down HARD.During an interview on MSNBC, conservative Christian pastor Darrell Scott, who is one of the few black people in America who support the Republican nominee, pretended that Trump is not a racist and denied that Trump had anything to do with the birther movement against President Obama.Trump tried to sell himself to black voters on Friday in front of an audience of white people by telling them they have nothing to lose by voting for him.
That led Reid to ask, If Donald Trump makes a speech to black people when there are none around to hear it, did he make a sound?
Reid turned to Scott and noted that Trump has made two appeals to black voters in recent days in places where the black population only makes up about 1 percent of the total.
Why is he making those appeals in front of almost exclusively white audiences?
she asked.Scott made excuses for Trump, claiming that it doesn t matter where he speaks because all African-Americans hear him.
When pressed on why Trump has not accepted invitations from the NAACP, the Urban League, and the National Association of Black Journalists because he supposedly had better things to do already on his schedule.Reid smiled as Scott called Trump a cultural phenomenon who draws rock star crowds.
Reid then zinged back that those crowds are devoid of black people.Reid slammed Trump for pushing the false notion that every black person in America is living in poverty and going to failing schools and then asked Scott about Trump s history of housing discrimination, which has been cited by the Justice Department because the Republican nominee refused to rent to black people.Scott claimed that it was just an accusation and denied that Trump discriminated against black people, but the record shows that Trump settled the case with the government because there was a strong case against him, hardly the action of a man who didn t commit such an offense.Reid then asked Scott about Trump s prominent role in the birther movement.
Despite multiple video tapes of Trump pushing the birther conspiracy and demanding President Obama s birth certificate, Scott also denied that Trump had anything to do with the movement.
Don t tell me you agree with the bitherism, sir, Reid pleaded.
Don t tell me you agree with that.
Scott replied by claiming that Hillary Clinton started the birther movement, a notion that is totally false.
And Reid shut Scott down for blatantly lying on her show.
That s wrong.
Even a pastor cannot make things up on this show, she cautioned.
I respect you as a pastor, but you re not going to come on and make things up.
Here s the video via MSNBC.Donald Trump is desperately trying to save his flailing campaign and that s the only reason why he is making feeble attempts to court black voters now.
If he really cared about black people he would have been courting them from the beginning.
Instead, he has been palling around with white supremacists and encouraging violence against black protesters at his rallies.
Scott can t sit there and call himself a man of God while lying through his teeth to defend a bloated racist.
It s just not going to fly.Featured image via screenshot