On July 9, a 28-year-old Washington man broke into the home of Sikh/Hindu family, holding them at knife point.Preet Moudgil manages the Kettle Falls Inn, located in Kettle Falls, Washington.
He and his family, including his parents and three-year-old son, also live on the premises.According to the Spokesman-Review, Moudgil was working the desk at the motel when Kilgore first approached him.
He made several racist comments during the encounter, and asked him if he knew about Guantanamo Bay.
Later Kilgore attempted to break down the door that separates Moudgil s apartment from the motel office, but was unsuccessful.
He then tried to enter through a second door, located on the first floor.
Moudgil locked all the doors and windows to the apartment.
Kilgore managed to get inside through a sliding glass door, which he reached by going to the roof of the motel.Once inside the apartment, Kilgore began threatening the family at knife-point.
He said I m going to cut you up because you are a terrorist, Moudgil told the Spokesman-Review.
All he saw was brown skin.
Kilgore shoved Moudgil s elderly father, turning the knife on him.
He told the family, I was trained to kill people like you.
Moudgil s father eventually managed to escape the apartment.
His mother fled through a back entrance as well, taking the three-year-old child with her.According to the Spokesman-Review, a neighbor finally managed to subdue the man, wrestling the knife away from him before he was able to seriously injure someone.Kilgore was arrested and is facing two counts of second-degree assault, one count of burglary and one count of malicious mischief.
Additional charges may be added in the future.
He is currently being held on $100,000 bond.Moudgil says that he has lived in the Kettle Falls community for years.
This community is very small.
Everybody knows everybody, he told the Spokesman-Review.
Yet he says that he has never heard anything like this happening in the community before.The rise of racist, right-wing hatemongers like Donald Trump, who spew anti-Muslim ignorance and bigotry on a national platform, is undoubtedly linked to the growing number of anti-Muslim hate crimes in the U.S.As The New York Times reported here, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of attacks against members of the Muslim community over the past 10 months.As long as people like Donald Trump are allowed to spew their hateful, racist views on a national stage, the situation will only continue to get worse.Image credt: Viktoria-Lyn Deviant Art CC 3.0