It took Speaker of the House Paul Ryan quite a while to endorse GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump.
This is understandable; after all, the relationship between Ryan and Trump has been frosty at best.
In fact, when the endorsement finally came, it was under cover a huge speech that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton was giving.
Further, since said endorsement Ryan has yet to appear on stage in public with Trump, and has avoided speaking about his party s vulgar, bombastic presidential nominee if at all possible.
Before Trump took the nomination officially, Ryan called him out for many of his more inflammatory remarks particularly his call to ban Muslims from entering the United States, and his apparent inability to immediately disavow David Duke and The Ku Klux Klan.
However, with Hillary steadily pulling ahead of Trump, Ryan is biting the bullet and caving under pressure of the Republican National Committee and the goons at the Trump campaign, and will finally appear in public with Trump.Ryan s office released a document to the press on Thursday, saying that Ryan would be at an event in his native Wisconsin.
The memo is called, Paul Ryan to Attend Annual Fall Fest in Walworth County.
Along with Ryan, there s a list of other Republicans who will be there.
And, buried under all the political talk, almost at the very end, the document confirms the worst: Trump will be there with bells on, too.
Here is a screen capture of the document, via the Huffington Post:And pay special attention to the last line: All questions related to Mr. Trump should be directed to the Trump campaign.
That right there goes to show that Ryan still can t stand the idea of talking about Trump, yet he has somehow been bullied into appearing in public with him.Speaker Ryan, you have NO SPINE LEFT.
You have handed the battered bits of it that were left to the courier who delivered it on a silver platter to Trump Tower.
It s Trump s party now, and you helped make that happen.
The GOP is dead, and so is your political career.
If you had stood up to your travesty of a nominee, if you had put country before party as any real leader would, you might have been able to avoid this situation.Good riddance, you sniveling, cowardly, Eddie Munster lookalike.
I hope you not only lose your speakership in November, but your seat in Congress as well.
After all, regardless of political party, real leaders have a spine.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images