Author Stephen King has been a longtime advocate for gun control and he knows exactly why we can expect to see more mass shootings in the future.During a chat with Game of Thrones author George R. R. Martin, King briefly talked about about gun violence in the wake of the Orlando mass shooting in which 49 people were killed and over 50 were wounded.King suggested that shooters like Omar Mateen and Dylann Roof are at least partially driven to commit their heinous crimes by the media because they are looking for fame and the media always talks about the body count as if they are keeping score.
In addition, the shooters end up getting their very own Wikipedia page and their photos are plastered on the news for days or even weeks after their crimes.King said that these shooters start out as nobodies and that they see committing a mass shooting as a way to gain notoriety.
A lot of these guys are nobodies who see their way to some kind of stardom by creating an act of mass terror.
And, of course, the sad thing about this is that we remember the killers long after their victims are forgotten, and that s one of the things that makes this a self-perpetuating act.
I would argue that someone like the man who shot all these people in Orlando, he may have pledged allegiance to ISIS but before that he was a spouse abuser and somebody with a lot of anger.
And I think that in a lot of cases these acts are perpetrated by people who may put some political icing on the cake, but basically they re just f*cking crazy.
Indeed, and those f*cking crazy people are able to legally buy assault weapons, which King pointed out will continue to lead to more mass shootings as long as we allow people access to them.
If that guy had gone in there with a knife he would have been overpowered before he had stabbed more than four people.
As long as anybody who s got only two wheels on the road can walk into a store and buy a f*cking killing machine like an AR-15 or something, this is just going to go on.
It s really up to us.
Here s the video via YouTube.
King s remarks on gun violence begin at the 40 minute mark.Stephen King is absolutely right and his point is illustrated perfectly by Australia.
After five mass shootings between 1987 and 1996, the people there demanded action and banned assault weapons.
There hasn t been a mass shooting since.Featured image via screen capture