Dr. Drew Pinsky knows a thing or two about reality show stars, so it wasn t really that hard for him to question Donald Trump s mental health.The Republican nominee has been going further and further off the deep end since the first day of his campaign last year.
His behavior and big mouth have caused many Americans to say that Trump is not fit for public office, especially an office as powerful as the presidency, which has access to the nuclear weapons codes.And according to Dr. Drew, who is a board certified internist and a Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the Keck School of Medicine at the University of Southern California, Americans are right to worry.During an interview with Don Lemon on CNN, Dr. Drew explained that he doesn t think Trump is necessarily insane.
There s two definitions of sanity, one is legal definition, and that is somebody who is so out of it they don t know the difference between right and wrong.
That is a very high standard for insanity, very few people meet that standard.
When you re legally insane, you re really not functioning.
Clinically, medically, usually when we talk about insanity, we mean psychotic, hearing voices, hallucinations.
But he did concede that Trump is showing signs of mental instability.
The question, though, is, are some of the reckless qualities that everyone is getting so disturbed about on the campaign going to be translated into office should he get elected?
That s a pretty hard thing to predict.
I don t know if this is just somebody playing politics, or is this somebody who really can t contain their impulses?
When I hear people that are impulsive with their speech, I worry about hypomania and bipolar types of conditions.
Pinsky then went on to question the mental health of Trump s supporters, who seem to support him no matter what he says or does.
What s more fascinating to me, Don, is not him but his supporters that seem to not be concerned about any of this.
That, to me, is fascinating.
As always, what is up with us?
Let s just assume that most people that would choose to be in a very high-profile race like this would have narcissistic tendencies, and there s something called sort of narcissistic injury, then narcissistic rage.
If you injure if you really shame somebody they tend to be sort of teflon when it comes to shame.
If you shame them, they can react with extreme aggression and extreme rage.
So this seems to be that kind of a psychological process.
Here s the video via VidMe.Donald Trump is a threat to this country.
Placing him in a position with such consequential responsibility would be reckless and it would embarrass this nation on the world stage.America needs a president with a temperament and mental stability that will not cause World War III.
We need someone who is not thin-skinned or easily provoked.
We need someone who think of the people and the country before themselves.
That person is NOT Donald Trump.Featured image via screenshot