On March 20, 2016 Barkley had this to say about Obama: Listen, you people in America who are upset that President Obama did a [March Madness NCAA Basketball] bracket why don t ya ll just go say you don t like him because he s black.
He continued, Cut through all the BS don t say he take too many vacations just say, We don t like him because he s black.'
Via: TMZLess than a month ago, Charles Barkley said anyone who disagrees with Obama does so because they are discriminating against him because he is black.
And now, according to the all-knowing former NBA star, anyone who believes the religious rights of business owners should be protected is discriminating against gays.
What about white Christians Charles?
Are they entitled to any protections, or do you have to fall into some sort of minority category in order to have any rights or protections in the new progressive America?
Charles Barkley wants to move All-Star game due to 'Anti-LGBT' lawhttps://t.co/P0hK7FpJFo FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) April 8, 2016Retired professional basketball player and NBA analyst Charles Barkley has been bringing politics into this year s March Madness tournament left and right.His latest comments center around Indiana s Religious Freedom Act, the left s latest punching bag.
Discrimination in any form is unacceptable to me, Barkley said Friday in a statement released through his agent to USA Today.
As long as anti-gay legislation exists in any state, I strongly believe big events such as the Final Four and Super Bowl should not be held in those states cities.
The Religous Freedom Act prevents Indiana state and local governments from substantially burdening a person s ability to exercise their religion unless the government can show that it has a compelling interest and that the action is the least-restrictive means of achieving it, according to the Indianapolis Star.The legislation, which will take effect July 1, makes no specific mention of sexual orientation, but it was quickly dubbed anti-gay by opponents.Barkley also turned the popular basketball tournament political when he made comments about President Obama s March Madness bracket.
He said that people were criticizing Obama for filling out a bracket because he s black.
Via: Red Alert Politics