FBI Director James Comey could very likely be the reason we have a President Trump.
Just shy of two weeks prior to the 2016 election, Comey sent a letter to Congress that essentially said that his investigation into then-Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton s private email server could potentially be re-opened.
Despite his open condemnation of Hillary s activities, Comey kept mum on the investigations the much more SERIOUS inquires on the other side, which would be those into the possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign into the election s eventual outcome.Well, all of that is now coming to a head.
Trump s team has been repeatedly caught being linked to Russia and lying about it.
His national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was forced to resign for his lies to Mike Pence about his Russia ties, and has since registered with the United States government as a foreign agent.
It has also been found that the newly confirmed Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, has been forced to recuse himself from any Russia-Trump investigations due to his lying to Senator Al Franken during his confirmation hearings regarding his own conversations with the Ambassador to Russia.Now, it seems that there is a firm way to bring this to an end.
Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) seem to have had a meeting with FBI Director Comey on March 2.
According to Whitehouse, during that meeting, Comey promised him and his GOP counterpart that they would have the answer we ve all been waiting for by this coming Wednesday which is whether or not the Federal Bureau of Investigation is actively probing the activities of the Trump campaign with regards to Russia and the 2016 election.Whitehouse says that not only will Comey tell them whether or not he and his agency are investigating Trump s Russia ties, but he will also go into the scope of their Russia/Trump investigation because he had not been able to at that point say that there was one.
Well, this should definitely be interesting.
After all, Comey was more than willing to throw the election to Trump by screwing Hillary Clinton with nonsense that amounted to nothing, while Vladimir Putin installed a Russian agent and his cronies as head of the United States government.
Hopefully, once Comey is under oath, whatever is revealed will take Trump down once and for all.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images