It would be a great sight to behold if a New York City police officer were ordered to place Donald Trump in handcuffs.
People would cheer.And it could happen if New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has enough evidence to charge Trump with crimes related to his fraudulent charity.
The Trump Foundation is currently under investigation for self-dealing, which means the foundation paid out donations to its own officers, which is illegal and totally unethical and immoral.Money that should have been used to help cure cancer has instead benefited Trump personally as he has used foundation money to buy stuff for himself, pay legal fees and settlements, and pay executives involved in running the scam.Trump, of course, whined on Twitter about the investigation, claiming that 100 percent of funds go to charities.I gave millions of dollars to DJT Foundation, raised or recieved millions more, ALL of which is given to charity, and media won t report!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 27, 2016The DJT Foundation, unlike most foundations, never paid fees, rent, salaries or any expenses.
100% of money goes to wonderful charities!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 27, 2016But Trump is lying because even the Trump Foundation admitted to self-dealing in their 2015 tax returns to the IRS.Trump even thought he could escape the legal system by simply shuttering the foundation, but Schneiderman s office informed him that he can t legally dissolve until that investigation is complete.
And if that investigation finds that Trump broke the law, he would be subject to charges and arrest.
And as military veteran and blogger David Axe points out, there is precedent for an NYPD officer to arrest Trump and haul his ass to jail.
President-elect Donald Trump could be in big legal trouble over his allegedly self-dealing charity, Axe began.
It s entirely possible that he could eventually face arrest.
And it wouldn t be unprecedented if, say, a New York cop actually slapped cuffs on Trump and read him his rights.
After all, a ballsy policeman arrested Pres.
Ulysses Grant way back in 1866 albeit for a comparatively minor crime.
It s not unprecedented for a small-time cop to arrest America s commander-in-chief.
In 1866, Pres.
Ulysses Grant got busted for riding his horse at an unsafe speed at 13th and M Streets in Washington, D.C.
The arresting officer, William West, had previously issued Grant a warning for the same offense.
Do you think, officer, that I was violating the speed laws?
Grant reportedly asked West.
I certainly do, Mr. President, West replied.
I am very sorry, Mr. President, to have to do it, for you are the nation s chief executive, but my duty is plain, sir.
I shall have to place you under arrest!
Do your duty, my good man, Grant said.
West escorted the president to the police station for booking.
Grant paid a fine and walked free.
Officer and president reportedly became friends after the incident.Yes, this really happened.
And stealing money from charities is a hell of a lot worse of a crime than speeding while riding a horse.In fact, the precedent of arresting sitting presidents for breaking the law goes back even further.
Franklin Pierce was arrested in 1853 for running a lady over with his horse.
The case was dropped due to lack of evidence.But the points stands.
Police officers can arrest the president for violating the law and it sure looks like Trump violated it repeatedly.As Axe points out, however, Trump probably won t go quietly.
If a New York cop arrests Trump, it seems unlikely that the notoriously temperamental Trump and his equally angry private security detail will react as gentlemanly as Grant did to his own arrest, he concluded.Frankly, Trump should be thrown in a prison cell next to Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff.
Because while Madoff only scammed rich people, Trump stole money from kids with cancer to pay his employees and his legal bills.
That s truly deplorable.Featured image via Capitol Hill Blue