The U.S. Secret Service is investigating a Facebook post from Missouri state Sen. Maria Chappelle-Nadal, D-University City, in which she stated: I hope Trump is assassinated!
A conversation between MO state Senator Maria Chappelle-Nadal and Christopher Gagn of Ferguson, MO, (In his Facebook profile he claims he s an Investigative Journalist focused on Social Justice, Police Misconduct and Prison Reform ) was screen shot and saved before either party had a chance to delete it.
The conversation included the senator openly hoping that President Trump would be assassinated and Facebook user Christophe Gagne, who told her that his cousin is on President Trump s Secret Service Detail .
Gagn s comments seem to infer that his cousin is being forced to protect President Trump because he had to sign up for 6 years of service and has already served 4 years of his contract protecting Barack Obama.
Gagn went on to say, I truly believe [it] will happen sooner not later.
while referring to the assassination of our president.For obvious reasons, everyone seems to be focused on what the MO state Senator said when she openly hoped for Trump s assassination, but shouldn t the Secret Service be making a call to Christopher Gagn who claims to have a cousin assigned to protecting the life of our president and claiming that he will be assassinated sooner than later?
Does Gagn have some sort of an inside scoop?
For all we know, Gagn may not even be telling the truth about having a cousin on President Trump s Secret Service detail, but sure seems it would certainly be worth the time it would take for the Secret Service to look into it.
St. Louis Post-Dispatch: Chappelle-Nadal s comment, referring to President Donald Trump, has since been removed.
But Chappelle-Nadal confirmed to the Post-Dispatch that she had written it in response to another commenter before deleting it.
I didn t mean what I put up.
Absolutely not.
I was very frustrated, Chappelle-Nadal told the newspaper.
Things have got to change.
The U.S. Secret Service s St. Louis field office is looking into this, the office confirmed.Kristina Schmidt, special agent in charge, told the Post-Dispatch that hypothetically in such investigations, agents try to determine intent, to determine if there was a violation of federal law.
If there is, then we refer it to the U.S. Attorney.
Our primary goal is to determine if there is intent and meaning behind it, Schmidt said.According to a screenshot of the now-deleted conversation obtained by the Post-Dispatch, another commenter named Christopher Gagn was writing about a cousin of his who he said was on Trump s Secret Service detail.
But, what I posted earlier, I truly believe will happen, sooner not later, he wrote.