The actors and actresses of Fox News have received their marching orders and the run to November will officially be the propaganda machine for Donald Trump.
That s how it seems, at least, as hosts align themselves with people like Newt Gingrich, and other hard-core party liners who will vote for whomever has an (R) next to their name.
Gingrich vowed his support for Donald Trump as well as his contempt for some party heavy hitters.After a shot at Mitt Romney for trusting the party voters to deliver the candidate they want, he turned his attention to the two former presidents, George W. and George H.W.
Bush.
Both of those historical failures have decided that they refuse to support Donald Trump, and nor will they attend the convention to initiate the Fourth Reich.
Little brother Jeb has also chimed in that he ll be on the sidelines as well, as though he had a choice.
Jeb was Trump s first real target.
When it worked and Jeb dropped out, pundits everywhere were shocked.
Then one by one they fell.
All of the party elite; all of the establishment favorites.The money from the Koch brothers never appeared, because as evil as they are, they aren t stupid.
Donald Trump ran the most effective underdog campaign in history by loaning himself money and going out and getting free press.
Trump used the Republican Party and the agenda of fear and hate they ve fostered for far too long against them like a champ.
The uneducated bigots crawled out of the woodwork to demand the country be great again and (insert required amount of rhetoric and lies).As the stupidity gained steam and made its way towards a downhill run to Cleveland, the party began to fracture.
The pledge they made Trump sign now makes them look like massive hypocrites.
What they re left with are fights of the magnitude of Gingrich versus Bush:Gingrich: "When [HW, W & Romney] were the nominees they expected all of us to support them."
https://t.co/0dzSQiMZjfhttps://t.co/7cYf30HPLf Fox News (@FoxNews) May 7, 2016Congratulations, GOP.
You made your bed, now lie in it.Featured image via screen capture