Arguably the most popular myth in the Pantheon of Republican fiction is the idea that there s somehow a liberal media conspiracy to suppress conservatism and elevate liberalism.
Horseshit.But that hasn t stopped slippery dickface Ted Cruz from furthering the myth whenever possible.
During an interview with Howard Kurtz, Cruz responded to a question about the candidate s base and its distrust of the mainstream media.
I especially like the part about how Cruz s face scares small children.
Which is probably true.Via Crooks & Liars:HOWARD KURTZ: When you bash the media, and you have been treated unfairly at times portrayed as somebody who scares little children, but isn t that in your interest to do that?
Your base loves that.
They don t like the mainstream media.TED CRUZ: There is a reason they don t like the mainstream media because they are partisan liberal democrats.KURTZ: Every single journalist?CRUZ: Almost without exception.KURTZ: Almost without exception?CRUZ: Almost without exception they have a partisan agenda.
And we understand let s take a substantive issue: police officers.
If you have one police officer somewhere who does something he shouldn t have, the press will breathlessly report on this terrible, horrible police officer and all the democratic politicians will jump in and demonize and vilify the cops.Let me ask you something?
How come the press doesn t tell stories of heroism?The great news is we don t live anymore in a world of three networks that have a stranglehold on information.
We have got the internet.
We have got the Drudge Report.
We have got talk radio.
We have got social media.
We ve got the ability to go directly around, and directly to the people.Yes, Cruz believes every single journalist is a liberal with an agenda and therefore the news media is part of a liberal conspiracy.
I suppose that might be true if you completely overlook the fact that the most popular cable news network in American history is decidedly conservative.
Or that 50 percent of broadcast radio is controlled by conservative screechers.
Or that most news media outlets are owned by conservative multinational corporations with little interest in liberal politics.
Or that one of those corporations, NewsCorp, owns literally hundreds of news media outlets around the world.
Even the so-called liberal cable news network, MSNBC, is anchored by a four-hour morning show, hosted by a conservative Republican former congressman.The GOP persecution complex is powerful as powerful as toddlers who think toe-monsters are living under their beds.Featured image via video screen grab.