There is no question that the killing of any innocent human is a tragedy.
So how is it that the media determines just how much of a tragedy each unjust killing is?
When 13 US Army members were murdered by Nidal Hassan, a Muslim psychiatrist who worked on the same US Army base, why did it take the media so long to report about his allegiance to radical Islam or his cries of Alluha Akbar as he slaughtered and wounded unsuspecting military members?
Should the media have kept his devotion to Islam from the public in order to protect members of his faith from unjust persecution?
Only months ago, Obama s Attorney General Loretta Lynch threatened to punish anyone who used what the DOJ considers hate speech against Muslims, but never mentioned Christians, Hindus or Jews.
Why did the media identify the CATHOLIC faith of the Hispanic man who killed the NY Muslim Imam and his assistant within hours of his capture, while hiding the faith of Muslims who commit acts of terror against Americans?
Why does the media and our government go out of their way to protect members of the Muslim community, while racing to out the alleged Catholic Hispanic killer?Where were the large crowds of Mulsims protesting the hate after 9-11 in NY?
Where were they after the worst mass murder in American history by radical Muslim Omar Mateen in Orlando?The suspect accused of murdering an imam and his assistant in New York had hatred toward Muslims after 9/11, his brother has said as police investigate whether he was hired as a hitman.
Hispanic Oscar Morel, 35, of Brooklyn, was charged Monday night with two counts of second-degree for the killings of Imam Maulana Alauddin Akonjee and Thara Uddin after cops say they recovered what they believe is the gun at his home.Investigators found clothes similar to those worn by the gunman in surveillance video of the killing stuffed into the wall of the suspect s home along with the weapon.Police and the Queens District Attorney would not say why Morel has not been charged with first degree murder but it may be because it will be easier to upgrade the charges at a later stage.Morel worked as a janitor at The New School, a private university in New York, and was brought up in a Catholic family.His brother Alvin told the New York Post his brother was furious after attack on the Twin Towers but insisted it was only temporary .He said: The only time we ever felt anything was 9/11, Alvin Morel said.
We felt that same anger.
We all had a hatred.
The New York Daily News also reported that detectives were working on the theory that somebody hired Morel as a hit man.Police have not yet speculated on a motive, though New York Police Department s chief of detectives said the possibility that the murders were a hate crime is certainly on the table .After his arrest, more information about Morel and the shooting were revealed:Morel, 35, is Hispanic, went to Catholic school and worked as a private university janitorHe has been charged with second-degree murder and will be arraigned at Queens Criminal Court on Tuesday morningSecond degree murder means the killing was not pre-meditated, but the charges could be upgraded Morel told police he was in the area at the time of the slaying and admitted he was the man in the surveillance video but said he didn t shoot anyone The NYPD have said: We strongly believe this is the individual They expressed confidence after detectives found a gun and clothes similar stuffed into the wall of Morel s homeHis brother said he had animosity towards Muslims after 9/11, but it had subsided Alvin Morel also said his brother was a good guy and was in disbelief at what happened Muslims in the community where the imam and his assistant were killed say they have been harassed Residents in the Bangladeshi-Muslim community in Queens and Brooklyn have described harassment in recent months by people who shouted anti-Muslim epithets.But Morel s brother said: We re Catholic-school kids we don t do this.
He s a good guy.
He also added on Facebook: I cant believe what has happened.
I don t believe whats injustice.
GOD help my brother mother father and my self.
Boyce added: We believe, because of the evidence we ve acquired thus far, that we strongly believe this is the individual.
Some have said that the men being shot in the head could have been the result of a feud between Muslims and Hispanics.The arrest was announced just hours after about 1,000 people gathered under tents to praise Akonjee, 55, and Uddin, 64, in an Islamic funeral service where emotions ran high.The ceremony featured several speakers who said they believed the victims were targeted because of their religion.
Some members of the congregation shouted, Justice!
periodically throughout the service.After the ceremony, part of the crowd marched to the spot a few blocks away where the shooting took place.Mayor Bill de Blasio told those gathered that the entire city was mourning with you.
Some in the largely Bangladeshi Muslim community in Queens and Brooklyn have described harassment in recent months by people who shouted anti-Muslim epithets.Read more:Daily Mail