Holy moly!
We ve been covering the FBI agent who was fired for his anti-Trump tweets but now this BOMBSHELL:The agent is the one who quickly looked over thousands of emails from the Weiner computer and said there was nothing there!
You can bet this is now a big problem for the FBI.
President Trump is correct when he says the FBI is in tatters Reddit reported:OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE FIRED ANTI-TRUMP FBI AGENT: This is an interesting development in the Mueller investigation because we don t trust the FBI.
Is this new news from the New York Times an effort to make Mueller and McCabe appear unbiased?
We re not buying it because this guy was the lead investigator in the Hillary email case Really???
Talk about compromised!
Please see our previous report below on the FBI giving special status to Hillary s email investigation.Robert Mueller kicked a top FBI agent off the special counsel investigation this summer over potential anti-Trump texts he sent, per a new report today.According to The New York Times, Peter Strzok not only helped lead the investigation into Hillary Clinton s emails, but he played a major role in the Trump-Russia investigation.But he is no longer on the investigation:Mr. Strzok was reassigned this summer from Mr. Mueller s investigation to the F.B.I.
s human resources department, where he has been stationed since.
The people briefed on the case said the transfer followed the discovery of text messages in which Mr. Strzok and a colleague reacted to news events, like presidential debates, in ways that could appear anti-Trump.ABC News reported back in August that Strzok had left the investigation, but said at the time it s unclear why Strzok stepped away from Mueller s team of nearly two dozen lawyers, investigators and administrative staffers.
And The Washington Post s report today on Strzok contains some rather, well, personal details:During the Clinton investigation, Strzok was involved in a romantic relationship with FBI lawyer Lisa Page, who worked for Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, according to the people familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.The extramarital affair was problematic, these people said, but of greater concern among senior law enforcement officials were text messages the two exchanged during the Clinton investigation and campaign season, in which they expressed anti-Trump sentiments and other comments that appeared to favor Clinton Officials are now reviewing the communications to see if they show evidence of political bias in their work on the cases, a review which could result in a public report, according to people familiar with the matter.
Via: mediaiteFBI INVESTIGATORS GAVE SPECIAL STATUS TO HILLARY:Friday on Fox News Channel s Fox & Friends, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-FL) said evidence had been uncovered showing that the FBI gave the investigation of 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton s improper use of an unauthorized email server while secretary of state a special status.
According to the Florida Republican, who is also a member of the House Judiciary Committee, the process afforded to Clinton was different than it would have been for any other American.
We now have evidence that the FBI s investigation of Hillary Clinton did not follow normal and standard procedures, he said.
The current deputy director of the FBI Andrew McCabe sent emails just weeks before the presidential election saying that the Hillary Clinton investigation would be special that it would be handled by a small team at headquarters, that it would be given special status.
GOETZ CALLED FOR AN IMMEDIATE INVESTIGATION: I am immediately calling for an investigation into the special treatment that the FBI gave Hillary Clinton.
Rep. Gaetz: "I am immediately calling for an investigation into the special treatment that the FBI gave Hillary Clinton."
#IngrahamAngle pic.twitter.com/EHkQfyeWDK Fox News (@FoxNews) November 22, 2017Ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee Goetz is calling for an investigation into why Hillary Clinton s FBI case was labelled special by the FBI s Andrew McCabe:The Hill reports:Shortly before last year s election, FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe wrote an email on his official government account stating that the Hillary Clinton email probe had been given special status, according to documents released Wednesday.McCabe s Oct. 23, 2016, email to press officials in the FBI said the probe was under the control of a small group of high-ranking people at the FBI s headquarters in Washington.
As I now know the decision was made to investigate it at HQ with a small team, McCabe wrote in the email.
He said he had no input when the Clinton email investigation started in summer 2015, while he was serving as assistant director in charge of the FBI s Washington office.
[The Washington office] provided some personnel for the effort but it was referred to as a special and I was not given any details about it, he wrote.FBI officials on Wednesday night refused to answer what McCabe meant by calling the Clinton email probe a special or why it was restricted to a small team at headquarters when it began.
We don t have anything to add to the documents that were released, bureau spokeswoman Carol Cratty wrote The Hill.The note was contained in more than 70 pages of emails the FBI released on its public records site known as The Vault.The emails chronicled McCabe s efforts to address a separate controversy involving his wife s 2015 campaign for political office.McCabe s references to a special status for the Clinton probe are likely to be used as ammunition by Republican lawmakers critical of former FBI Director James Comey s handling of the Clinton investigation.Remember that the DOJ s Loretta Lynch also wanted Clinton s case to be called an incident and not an investigation.
It looks like all intel agencies were doing all they could to protect Clinton.
Was it to save themselves from exposure in the Uranium One case or something else?