Donald Trump and his campaign know that they stand an ice cube s chance in hell at winning the presidential election unless they can sway some of the minority vote.
As it stands now the campaign has next to nothing in the realm of that voting block.So, what is Trump doing to try to get some of that vote?
He s pandering to African-Americans and Latinos, of course.
However, he s doing a terrible job of it.He s literally asking minority voters: What do you have to lose?
As though that s all the reasoning they d ever need to vote for him.
As if minority voters are going to show up to the voting booth in November, look at the ballot, and say, eh, why not Trump?
What do I have to lose?
Well, the answer to that is everything considering Trump is currently endorsed by white supremacists and has regularly compared Latinos to rapists and murderers.Does Trump really think that line is going to work?
I mean, he can t be that dumb, right?
Who knows, really.
Clearly, his current supporters are.Well, not letting Trump get away with being such a pathetic pandering fool, Ana Navarro, a conservative mind you, tells Trump exactly what they have to lose.On CNN Navarro stated: I don t speak for all Hispanics.
I speak for myself.
Maybe the eighty plus percent of Hispanics who don t approve of him, some of them may agree with me.
I think what we have to lose, is our dignity.
Our sense of self-worth.
I think what we have to lose is our moral compass.
I think that if we allow ourselves to vote for a man who has been making textbook racist remarks, and in my book that makes him a racist, for over a year, against Hispanics.
Against immigrants.
You are voting against your own self-interests.
I think that we would lose our political leverage.
We would lose any power.
If we allow somebody who has been bashing us for over a year to win the presidency.
It means the Hispanic vote does not matter.
So, that s my answer to Donald Trump.
What do we have to lose by voting for you?
Our dignity.
It really doesn t get more perfect than that.
Well said, Ana.Watch Navarro explain what Latinos have to lose by voting for Trump here:.
@ananavarro's answer to Donald Trump: "What we have to lose by voting for you?
Our dignity."
https://t.co/rb3lOdtGTV CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) August 23, 2016Featured image via video screen capture