One of the positive effects of the racial tension in Ferguson, Missouri that began with the killing of Michael Brown was the subsequent resignation and replacement of the city s municipal court judge.
After a Department of Justice review found the former judge ran his court as a for-profit entity, squeezing fine after fine from a city held hostage to his abuse, the new judge made some radical changes that allowed an entire city to breathe a little easier.The judge removed all warrants and license suspensions for non-payment of fines from the previous year, solving several problems in one fell swoop.
First, people could stop fearing that the police would pull them over or stop them on the street at random looking for a collar and a few more dollars for the city s coffers.
Next, it allowed citizens to have a new day in court in front of a judge who wasn t there to stock the prison system with cheap labor and add fines to people who already couldn t pay.
People lined up to pay their old fines if they could or make payment arrangements or ask that they are dismissed if they couldn t.The end result was a city that had been victimized by class warfare and institutional racism being given a new start.
No longer would 70 percent of households have no right against illegal searches just because someone inside had a bench warrant for not paying a fine they couldn t afford.
No longer would police be able to pull people over at random, almost certain to make their arrest quota by ruining the livelihoods of people forced to drive on suspended licenses or lose their jobs.Ferguson was a perpetual circle of hell for its residents when it came to the police and the court system.
It was also the perfect place to start a movement to reform it.
Now Justice Department civil rights prosecutor Vanita Gupta is taking the philosophy that s working so well in Ferguson and trying to spreads it nationwide.
While the letter she wrote to state courts doesn t carry the full weight of the law, it does carry the seal of the United States Justice Department and the full support of the executive branch of the U.S. government.That letter, which is a stern warning to judges and clerks to be wary of tactics that target the poor and minorities, including setting bail amounts beyond reason for charges filed and using bench warrants as a way to make money.
Imagine if every court in the country took the same steps Ferguson did.
People wouldn t have to be afraid every time they see a police officer.
Why do seem nervous could be eliminated from a cop s line of questioning when they pull someone over.
What police call routine traffic stops of people they know have warrants for outstanding fines after running their tags could be eliminated from the for-profit system.Ferguson basically hit the reset button.
With the help of our president s Justice Department, maybe other courts in low-income neighborhoods will follow suit.Featured image from Wikipedia