One of President-elect Donald Trump s potential cabinet picks showed photographers more than he intended over the weekend, revealing part of an aggressive plan to change the Department of Homeland Security s approach to combating illegal immigration.Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who was rumored last week to be on an attorney general short-list, emerged as a contender for the DHS job and interviewed with Trump on Sunday.
When the two posed for pictures beforehand, however, Kobach was clutching his proposal and photographs captured the parts that his left hand didn t obscure.Here are the portions revealed by a photo enlargement: DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY / KOBACH STRATEGIC PLAN FOR FIRST 365 DAYS I.
Bar the Entry of Potential Terrorists 1.
Update and reintroduce the NSEERS screening and tracking system (National Security Entry-Exit Registration System) that was in place from 2002-2005.
All aliens from high-risk areas are tracked.
2.
Add extreme vetting questions for high-risk aliens; question them regarding support for Sharia law, jihad, equality of men and women, the United States Constitution.
3.
Reduce intake of Syrian refugees to zero, using authority under the 1980 Refugee Act.
[II.
Deport] Record Number of Criminal Aliens in the First Year.
[4.
Reinstate] 193,000 criminal removal cases dropped by the Obama Administration.
[5.
ICE guidance memoranda adopted by Obama Administration; issue new guidance [to redefine ]criminal alien as any alien arrested for any crime, and any gang member.
[6. ]
to repatriate their citizens who have committed crimes in the United States.
[7. ]
expedited 287(g) agreements with at least 70 cities and counties to enlist state and alien criminals.
in addition to the 386 miles of existing actual wall within entire 1,989 miles planned for rapid build.
under the PATRIOT Act to prevent illegal aliens immediately to forestall future lawsuits.
V. Stop 21.
Issue regulations voter rolls.
Direct 22.
Direct the Department of Justice 23.
Draft Amendments to National Voter Read more: Daily Mail