As her husband continues to bully people on Twitter, Melania Trump continues to hypocritically lecture America about how cyberbullying needs to be stopped.
America pointed at her and laughed hysterically.Melania Trump once again expressed her desire to focus on tackling cyberbullying during a speech at a rally in Pennsylvania on Thursday.Ironically referring to cyberbullying as too mean and too rough, Melania went on to call on people to respect others.
We must treat each other with respect and kindness, even when we disagree, she said.It echoes an interview she had with Anderson Cooper last month when she told him that social media damages children because of all the negativity.
The social media, it s very damaging for the children, she claimed.
We need to guide them and teach them about social media because I see a lot of negativity on it.
Yeah, somehow Melania Trump ignored the fact that her own husband, Republican nominee Donald Trump, is king of the bullies on Twitter, yet here she is whining about cyberbullying.
She should probably scroll through some of what her husband has written on his own account.
That is if she s even allowed to follow him on the platform.Nevertheless, Twitter users took notice of Melania s hypocrisy and promptly ripped her a new one for it.Did Melania Trump s speech essentially denounce her husband?
Blair A. Robertson (@Blarob) November 3, 2016Has she ever met her own husband and step kids?
Clean up your own house, and take a seat!
#NotMyFirstLady https://t.co/lhBIkW1ElR Scott Nevins (@ScottNevins) November 3, 2016Melania #Trump is upset by people who bully others on the internet.
You know, like her husband.
pic.twitter.com/C6oCUs52UY GOP FIB Network (@GOPFIB) November 3, 2016Just saw Melania Trump s speech on ending cyber bullying.
Great.
She should start with divorce.
Albert Brooks (@AlbertBrooks) November 3, 2016Melania Trump speaking out against internet trolls gets me.
You are married to one.
Matt Haig (@matthaig1) November 3, 2016Melania Trump decries how uncivil our national dialogue has become.
Oh, and here s Eva Braun to teach us about Hanukkah.
John Fugelsang (@JohnFugelsang) November 3, 2016Has Melania Trump even met her husband?
JAY VERSACE (@tharealversace) November 3, 2016Melania Trump coming out against cyber bullying is like Michelle Obama fighting against black men running for President.
Sean Kent (@seankent) November 3, 2016So Melania #Trump, wife of the biggest sexist in the USA, wants to be an Advocate for Women and Children .
Joke of the year?
Markus Popp (@mpopp75) November 3, 2016When Melania Trump says she wants to combat cyber bullying: pic.twitter.com/MR4iBcGa9H Zach Braff (@zachbraff) November 3, 2016Melania Trump giving an anti-bullying speech is like a KKK member s wife speaking up against racism.
Nasty Woman (@xplora) November 3, 2016If Melania Trump really wants to tackle social media bullying she should change the password to Donald s Twitter.
Problem solved.
Kaivan ?
?5 days (@KaivanShroff) November 3, 2016Of course, @Midnight host Chris Hardwick had the best solution to dealing with Donald Trump s cyberbullying over two weeks ago.
Why would Melania wait until she s First Lady to reduce negativity on social media when she could just as easily replace her husband s phone with an exploding Samsung Galaxy Note 7.
Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images