Democratic National Committee Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz is stepping down as chair of the DNC, effective the second she gavels the Philadelphia convention closed.
This move comes on the heels of DNC insider emails that were leaked that appear to show that the DNC was in the tank for for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to win the Democratic nomination over unlikely rival Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders.
The leaked documents were simply the straw that broke the camel s back, though.
Wasserman Schulz has been a divisive figure within the party leadership for sometime now, and after this Democratic leaders decided that she had to go.
Wasserman Schultz says of the decision: Going forward, the best way for me to accomplish those goals [which include electing Clinton president] is to step down as Party Chair at the end of this convention.
As Party Chair, this week I will open and close the Convention and I will address our delegates about the stakes involved in this election not only for Democrats, but for all Americans.
Wasserman Schultz will now speak on Monday afternoon, though originally she had been removed from all speaking slots at the Democrats big event.
However, it seems that her supporters, and even the outgoing DNC chair herself fought for her right to be able to speak.
Senator Sanders had this to say on the subject:What does this mean for the Democratic Party?
It means more party unity, that s what.
We cannot win in November or any other election if the party splits.
In the beginning, everyone underestimated the power of Sen. Sanders message, and it seems that rank and file, establishment Democrats and party leaders saw him and his supporters as a distraction and an annoyance rather than someone whose ideas and policy proposals should be taken seriously.
This was a mistake.
We can never assume that everyone is as loyal to any political party as said party s leadership would like them to be.Now, as a firm Clinton supporter, I have had my issues with Bernie Sanders and his supporters.
However, party unity and beating Donald Trump is the top priority, not petty infighting.
Sanders had great influence over this year s party platform- the most progressive in the party s history and he and his supporters should be proud of what they have accomplished.Now that DWS is out of our way, let s go forth and kick butt and elect Democrats from the top of the ballot down in November.Feataured image via Andrew Burton/Getty Images