It was a simple question, but it was enough turn Donald Trump s campaign manager into a live train wreck.Melania Trump s concerns about cyber-bullying on social media have come back to bite her husband s campaign for the presidency on its ass because Donald Trump has been bullying people on Twitter since he joined in 2009.
We must treat each other with respect and kindness, even when we disagree, she said at a Pennsylvania rally on Thursday less than a month after telling CNN host Anderson Cooper that the negativity on social media is damaging for the children.
Well, Cooper discussed Melania s concerns with Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway and it was awkward, to say the least.
If it is not okay for kids to do this, why is it okay for adults?
For Donald Trump?
Cooper asked.Almost instantly, Conway was tied in knots.
Well, it is really not okay for anyone to do it with malicious intent, she said.
But most of what s on Twitter is not about politics or journalism.
This is a whole big worldwide social media culture, landscape out there, Anderson.
And I think what Melania Trump was talking about today is a cultural fact.
That s when Cooper dropped the hammer.
But your candidate is the guy on Twitter at 3:00 a.m. tweeting out this stuff, he said.Indeed, Trump has gone on several late night tirades and has bullied and insulted anyone who disagrees with him.But once again, Conway couldn t handle the truth and turned into a rambling mess while trying to steer the discussion towards the alleged bullying she deals with herself.
I get the f-word.
every night from journalists, frankly.
There is one who very washed up one frankly, can t stop tweeting at me.
Curse words.
My children have to see that.
We have to have really broad shoulders, I get it and I m just one person.
But the fact is I appreciate the fact that as a First Lady Melania Trump has committed herself to trying something about the negativity that naturally tends to what he identified as the positive tool.
Social media and communication can be a force for positivity.
Cooper intervened and pointed out that if Melania is so concerned about cyber-bullying she should start at her own dinner table.Conway claimed that Trump is only defending himself, and Cooper countered by noting that Trump once viciously mocked Carly Fiorina s face.
Look at that face!
Trump said during an interview in September.
Would anyone vote for that?
Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?!
Conway responded by accusing the media of cherry picking and basically said the media should ignore Trump s insults and bullying and focus more on his other Twitter posts for Melania s sake.
We re always cherry picking when it comes to Donald Trump, she said.
Go look at the entire Twitter feed.
Look at his message.
It is full of a lot of things.
But again, I think we re doing a disservice to the platform of Melania Trump.
Here s the video via YouTube.Seriously, how does Kellyanne Conway sleep at night after having to defend Trump all day?Featured Image: Screenshot