When hatred takes human form, it looks a lot like the founder and chairman of the Liberty Counsel Mathew Staver.
You may recognize him as the lawyer for the infamous Kentucky County Clerk Kim Davis who refused to do her job because her hatred was too big a burden to bear so she chose prison instead.
She just couldn t stand the thought of two loving people of the same gender getting married, so she showed us just a taste of what was about come in terms of hating the LGBT community.
And she had Staver as her equally bigoted lawyer.What s come since Davis hissy fit has been a string of anti-LGBT bills disguised as religious freedom laws, and Staver is the man behind the hate nationwide.
CBS News investigated and came to find out that it s been Staver leading this zealous crusade.
From laws prohibiting transgender individuals from using the proper bathroom to allowing businesses the right to refuse service to the LGBT community, Staver has been there through it all.
Yet, he cleverly words his hatred as such: It is only about being free to pursue your faith.
We have no interest in discriminating against anyone.
No, Staver, the First Amendment already guarantees your freedom to pursue your faith, what you re doing is helping states all across the nation write laws to specifically discriminate against LGBT individuals.
You are making it legal to deny service or evict tenants based on sexual orientation.
This legislated hate is taking away the freedom of LGBT citizens to grant the freedom to legally discriminate to religious zealots afraid gay money has gay cooties.
And God forbid a transgender person needs to pee.Oh, and get this, Staver doesn t think businesses are really going to pull out of the states that have enacted these laws.
He s supposedly calling their bluff.
He s about to be in for a rude awakening, because being on the wrong side of history has never boded well for any bigot.
His hatred for the gay community is bizarre.
If he wants freedom, live and let live.
It really can be that easy.Watch the story from CBS News:Featured Photo by Ty Wright/Getty Images