Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has wasted no time using the New York Times bombshell that was dropped on Saturday.
The revelation was that Republican presidential candidate Donald trump may have manipulated his taxes to make it so that he has not had to pay income taxes for two decades.
Now, Clinton is trolling Trump hard with a special tax calculator that shows exactly how much a person would pay in income taxes if they were Trump.
The joke is pretty straightforward.
Type in your annual income and the calculator shows the same amount of money owed in taxes is exactly $0.
Clinton s campaign website also displays a message that reads: Donald Trump says it s because he s smart.
The New York Times says it s because he lost almost a billion dollars.
Either way, Donald Trump may have avoided paying federal income taxes for 18 years after losing $916 million in 1995.
And Trump really did pay zero, or nearly zero, in federal income taxes in 1978, 1979, 1984, 1991, and 1993.
Until we see evidence otherwise, we ll assume it s still zero.
Clinton s campaign manager, Robby Mook just released a statement on the matter.
In the statement Mook said that: He apparently got to avoid paying taxes for nearly two decades while tens of millions of working families paid theirs.
He calls that smart.
Trump has refused to release his tax returns, breaking decades worth of tradition.
Most people on the left assumed he had something to hide.
Now we have a bit more of an idea of what exactly he is hiding.
Since the revelation, Trump has been lambasted by many individuals.
Notably, Nevada Democratic Senator Harry Reid, who said that Trump is a billion-dollar loser who won t release his taxes because they ll expose him as a spoiled, rich brat who lost the millions he inherited from his father.
Reid also called for the passing of the Presidential Tax Transparency Act.
The PTTA would make it mandatory for presidential candidates to release their tax returns if they seek the office of the presidency.Featured image from screenshot