Ted Cruz is one of the most extreme individuals to ever run for the presidency.
As such he has left a trail of quotes that should be held against him as his 2016 campaign continues.His campaign has primarily focused on religion in an effort to attract the support of conservative Christians, much like Rick Santorum did in 2012.And just like Rick Santorum, Cruz has also made his fair share of statements on topics such as the environment, science, foreign policy, and women s rights among others based on his fanatical religious views that completely disqualify him as a viable occupant of the White House.Here are 40 of them.1.
I am saddened to see that some here, not everyone, but some here, are so consumed with hate If you will not stand with Israel and the Jews, then I will not stand with you.
~Ted Cruz trashing his Muslim-American audience, who promptly booed him, September 20142.
It is now or never.
I don t think we ve reached the point of no return yet.
But we re close.
We are close!
And I believe if we go four or eight more years on this same path, we risk losing the greatest country in the history of the world.
Millions of Americans are realizing this isn t working.
The Obama economy is a disaster.
Obamacare is a train wreck.
And the Obama-Clinton foreign policy of leading from behind the whole world is on fire.
~Ted Cruz before scaring a little girl with same ending line as if the apocalypse is upon us, March 2015 3.
You always have to be worried about something that is considered a so-called scientific theory that fits every scenario.
Climate change, as they have defined it, can never be disproved, because whether it gets hotter or whether it gets colder, whatever happens, they ll say, well, it s changing, so it proves our theory.
~Ted Cruz bashing science and denying the reality of climate change, January 20154.
I think it s an enormous blessing to be the child of an immigrant who fled oppression, because you realize how fragile liberty is and how easily it can be taken away.
~Ted Cruz being a hypocrite on immigrants, June 20115.
No man who doesn t begin every day on his knees is fit to stand in the Oval Office.
~Ted Cruz saying atheists should are unqualified to be president, August 20156.
Let me say something to the school-aged kids here.
When Heidi s first lady, French fries are coming back to the cafeteria The last I checked the cardboard was supposed to be on the tray and not in the food!
~Ted Cruz tries to pander to kids by promising them unhealthy food for lunch, January 20167.
If I am elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
Now, once that is done, everyone agrees we need health care reform.
It should follow the principles of expanding competition, empowering patients, and keeping government from getting between us and our doctors.
Three specific reforms that reflect those principles: Number 1, we should allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines.
That ll create a true 50-state national marketplace while will drive down the cost of low-cost catastropic health insurance.
Number 2, we should expand health savings accounts so people can save in a tax-advantaged way for more routine health care needs.
And Number 3, we should work to delink health insurance from employment, so if you lose your job, your health insurance goes with you, and it is personal, portable, and affordable, and I tell you, Bret I think that s a much more attractive vision for health care than the Washington-driven, top-down Obamacare that is causing so many millions to hurt.
~Ted Cruz stating that only the rich and healthy will have health insurance if he is president, January 20168.
Listen on the question of tithing, all of us are on a faith journey, and I will readily admit that I have not been as faithful in this aspect of my walk as I should have been.
That article focuses on ten years ago.
We don t have the ability to go back and change what occurred ten years ago when Heidi and I were newly married and we d just started a family.
But at the end of the day, being a Christian is not about holding yourself out as righteous.
It s about beginning with the understanding that we are flawed sinners and we are saved not by deeds but by Christ s redemption.
I am grateful that God is a patient and forgiving God and this area, as in many areas of my life I am working to do a better job walking in my faith.
~Ted Cruz lying to a Christian reporter about how much he tithes, January 20169.
Well my aspiration is to, uh, oh I don t know, be in a teen tit film like that guy who played Horatio.
You know he was in Malibu Bikini Beach Shop.
Well, other than that, take over the world, world domination, you know, rule everything.
Rich, powerful, that sort of stuff.
~Ted Cruz admitting at the age of 18 that he wants to achieve world domination in a video released in January 201610.
I ll tell you, you know who one of those millions of Americans is who s lost their health care because of Obamacare?
That would be me.
I don t have health care right now.
~Ted Cruz lies about not having health insurance and blames President Obama for it, January 201611.
JFK campaigned on tax cuts, limiting government and standing up and defeating Soviet communists.
JFK would be a Republican today.
He stood for religious liberty, and he would be tarred and feathered by the modern Democratic Party.
~Ted Cruz claiming JFK would be in the GOP today only to then be smacked down by JFK s grandson, January 201612.
I believe in the death penalty.
~Ted Cruz in his book as dug up by the New York Times in January 201613.
We will carpet-bomb them into oblivion.
I don t know if sand can glow in the dark, but we re going to find out!
~Ted Cruz stating his willingness to kill everyone and everything in the Middle East to beat ISIS even though carpet bombing is a war crime, December 201514.
If you re a DACA recipient, you were brought here illegally, and violating the law has consequences.
One of the problems of our broken immigration system is that it is creating human tragedies and there are human tragedies when people break the law.
~Ted Cruz tells a woman to her face that he will deport her and her family if elected president, January 201615.
What happened in Benghazi is a national disgrace.
Four Americans were murdered.
We lost the first ambassador in the line of duty since the Carter administration.
The immediate response of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and the entire administration was to engage in deception, obstruction and cover up.
They began by falsely blaming it on some ridiculous internet video, but even before that was the question that everyone should ask is why was security not there in the first place when the ambassador said over and over again, keep us safe.
We do know Hillary told her daughter Chelsea, well gosh, I knew it was a terrorist attack, while we were out telling the American people it wasn t. You know I ll tell you, in my house, if my daughter Catherine, the five-year-old, says something she knows to be false, she gets a spanking.
~Ted Cruz lies about Benghazi before saying he wants to physically discipline Hillary Clinton for it, January 201616.
I want to tell everyone to get ready, strap on the full armor of God, get ready for the attacks that are coming.
~Ted Cruz tells his fanatical supporters to get ready to do battle on his behalf, January 201617.
We ve seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind.
Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic.
This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the world s leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism You d better believe it.
If I am elected president, on the very first day in office, I will rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal.
~Ted Cruz vows not to honor the Iran nuclear deal, favoring war instead, September 201518.
The next president should announce that America is moving its embassy to Jerusalem.
For decades political candidates, Republicans and Democrats, have talked about doing so.
Enough talk!
We need a leader who will act and respect the eternal capital of Israel.
~Ted Cruz says he would inflame tensions in the Middle East and basically start World War III for Israel, June 201519.
Listen, absolutely, yes.
I think the first obligation of everyone in public office is to protect life.
Life is foundational.
In fact, as you look at the Declaration, that ordering of unalienable rights life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness I think is a very deliberate ordering.
I very much agree with the pope s longstanding, and the prior popes before him, longstanding call to protect every human life from the moment of conception to the moment of natural death.
And, this notion that we just continue to ignore the personhood of the individual is a violation of that unborn child s Fifth and 14th Amendment rights for due process and equal protection under the law.
~Ted Cruz misreading the Constitution and declaring his intention to outlaw abortion despite Roe v. Wade, December 201520.
The simple and undeniable fact is the overwhelming majority of violent criminals are Democrats.
~Ted Cruz says 43 percent of the American people are violent criminals, November 201521.
There is no doubt that millions of people are suffering from the rise of radical Islamic terrorists.
Christians are suffering, Jews are suffering and other Muslims are suffering What I m saying is Syrian Muslim refugees should be resettled in the Middle East, in majority Muslim countries.
~Ted Cruz says only Christians should be allowed to enter the United States, November 201522.
There is no meaningful risk of Christians committing acts of terror.
If there were a group of radical Christians pledging to murder anyone who had a different religious view than they, we would have a different national security situation.
But it is precisely the Obama administration s unwillingness to recognize that or ask those questions that makes them so unable to fight this enemy.
Because they pretend as if there is no religious aspect to this.
~Ted Cruz falsely claiming that Christians do not commit acts of terrorism, November 201623.
Climate change is not science, it s religion.
~Ted Cruz claims climate science is a religious view, October 201524.
It s wrong for Barack Obama to threaten to shut down the government over the issue.
Under no circumstances should we spend $500 million funding Planned Parenthood, which appears to be a criminal enterprise.
~Ted Cruz attacks Planned Parenthood and blames President Obama for wanting a government shutdown when he s the one really trying to shut it down again, September 201525.
I stand with Kim Davis.
~Ted Cruz declaring his support of a religious anti-gay bigot, September 201526.
Nothing is more important in the next 18 months than that the body of Christ rise up and that Christians stand up, that pastors stand up and lead.
In this last election, 54 million evangelical Christians stayed home If we can simply bring Christians to the polls is it any wonder we have the government we have, we have the leaders we have if believers stay home and leave electing our leaders to unbelievers.
We get exactly what we deserve and nothing is more important than having people of faith stand up and just vote our values, vote biblical values and that s how we turn the country around.
~Ted Cruz openly planning to turn America into a Christian-ruled tyranny, August 201527.
Following the tragic shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, President Obama and Harry Reid lead an assault, not on going after violent criminals, which is what they should have done, but instead going after the Constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens.
And I led the fight to protect the Second Amendment in the U.S. Senate and we defeated President Obama efforts to undermine our rights.
~Ted Cruz bragging about ignoring the mass killing of 20 little kids to oppose gun control measures, August 201528.
We need a Commander-in-Chief that speaks the truth.
We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words radical Islamic terrorism.
What we need is a Commander-in-Chief who makes clear: If you join ISIS, if you wage Jihad on America, then you are signing your death warrant.
~Ted Cruz thinks merely shouting radical Islam will defeat ISIS, August 201529.
Our single vote in opposition is just and the abstentions of our friends are welcome, but at this point they are meaningless gestures.
It is time to stop ceding moral authority to the UNHRC and tell the truth about this hopelessly biased and anti-Semitic institution.
There is no equivalency between Israel s right to self-defense and Hamas genocidal aggression against the Jewish people.
There is no equivalence between Israel s extraordinary efforts to protect civilians and Hamas use of the Palestinian people as human shields.
Being party to any body that believes there is only perpetuates this injustice.
The United States should stop legitimizing the UNHRC with our membership and withdraw now.
~Ted Cruz declaring that he will remove America from the United Nations Human Rights Council, July 201530.
I like Donald Trump.
I think he s terrific, I think he s brash, I think he speaks the truth He has a way of speaking that gets attention.
And I credit him for focusing on an issue that needs to be focused on.
~Ted Cruz agreeing with Donald Trump that Mexicans are a bunch of rapists, June 201531.
You know, Vice President Joe Biden.
You know the nice thing?
You don t need a punch line.
(uproarious laughter) I promise you it works the next party you re at, just walk up to someone, say Vice President Joe Biden and just close your mouth.
They will crack up laughing.
And Biden said, if anyone attacks your house, just go outside with a double-barrel shotgun, and fire both barrels.
Now that is very very good advice if it so happens you re being attacked by a flock of geese.
~Ted Cruz cruelly mocks Joe Biden after his son Beau died, June 201532.
This bill is symptomatic of a larger problem in Washington an addiction to spending money we do not have.
The United States Senate should not be in the business of exploiting victims of natural disasters to fund pork projects that further expand our debt.
~Ted Cruz denying disaster relief funding to Hurricane Sandy victims in 2013.33.
There are a series of federal statutory thresholds that have to be satisfied.
Initially, it appears those thresholds are likely to be satisfied by the magnitude of the damage we re seeing.
Democrats and Republicans in the congressional delegation will stand as one in support of the federal government meeting its statutory obligations to provide the relief to help the Texans who are hurting.
~Ted Cruz demanding federal disaster relief for his own state and being a hypocrite simultaneously, May 201534.
Instead of a tax code that crushes innovation and inflicts burdens on families struggling to make ends met, imagine a simple, flat tax that lets Americans fill out their taxes on a postcard.
Imagine a tax code that is simple enough to abolish the IRS.
~Ted Cruz saying he would abolish the IRS and lower taxes to the point where our government couldn t function, April 201535.
We need a hundred more like Jesse Helms in the U.S. Senate.
~Ted Cruz longing for the Senate to be dominated by pro-segregationist racists who oppose the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, March 201536.
I think when it comes to campaign finance reform it is one of the most misunderstood issues in terms of the debate.
I am first and foremost a constitutionalist.
I believe in the Constitution and I believe in the bill of rights.
We saw last year, and you probably didn t see it because it wasn t covered in the local media, but Senate Democrats introduced and voted on an amendment to repeal the free speech protections of the first amendment.
~Ted Cruz saying he support wealthy people buying elections, March 201537.
Net neutrality is Obamacare for the Internet.
It would put the government in charge of determining Internet prices, terms of service and what types of products and services can be delivered, leading to fewer choices, fewer opportunities and higher prices.
Government-regulated utilities invariably destroy innovation and freedom.
~Ted Cruz opposing a free and open Internet, November 201438.
Of course we should have a surgeon general in place.
And we don t have one because President Obama, instead of nominating a health professional, he nominated someone who is an anti-gun activist and that individual didn t have the votes in the Senate.
~Ted Cruz keeping America from having a Surgeon General during the Ebola outbreak because the nominee supports gun control, October 201439.
If Harry Reid kills this bill in the Senate, I think the House should hold its ground, and should begin passing smaller continuing resolutions, one department at a time.
It should start with a continuing resolution focused on the military.
Fund the military, send it over, and let s see if Harry Reid is willing to shut down the military just because he wants to force Obamacare on the American people.
~Ted Cruz tries and succeeds in causing a government shutdown, September 201340.
Justice Scalia was an American hero.
We owe it to him, and the Nation, for the Senate to ensure that the next President names his replacement.
~Ted Cruz vowing on Twitter to help Senate Republicans block any Obama nominee to the Supreme Court in hope of a Republican like himself being able to do so in 2017, February 2016And these 40 quotes, especially the final quote on this list, demonstrate precisely why Ted Cruz should never be allowed to become president.Featured Image: Wikimedia