It s about time the Senate Judiciary Committee opened a probe into former Attorney General Loretta Lynch s efforts to shape the FBI s investigation into the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton!
The committee s chairman announced the bipartisan probe on Friday:The committee sent a letter to Lynch asking her to tell in detail everything about her involvement in the FBI s investigation.
They want to know whether she ever assured Clinton confidantes that the probe wouldn t push too deeply into the matter.
This could get really good if they can get Lynch to squeal.THIS IS A BIPARTISAN EFFORT:SENATOR FEINSTEIN CALLED FOR AN INVESTIGATION IN EARLY JUNE: How shocking is it that liberal Senator Diane Feinstein is calling for a closer look at the possible collusion between Lynch and Comey:Dianne Feinstein calls on Congress to investigate whether Loretta Lynch pressured Comey to cover for Hillary Clinton s campaign.#ComeyGate pic.twitter.com/AMwQoQsMe0 Josh Caplan (@joshdcaplan) June 11, 2017 Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-Calif.) said Sunday that Congress should investigate whether former Attorney General Loretta Lynch pressured former FBI Director James Comey to cover for Hillary Clinton s presidential campaign.
I think we need to know more about that, Feinstein told host Brianna Keilar on CNN s State of the Union.
And there s only way to know about it, and that s to have the Judiciary Committee take a look at that, Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said.Comey testified last Thursday that he felt queasy after Lynch asked him to characterize his probe into Clinton s emails as a matter, rather than an investigation.
He told the Senate Intelligence Committee that such a request would match the wording of Clinton s campaign.Feinstein, who is a member of the Senate Intelligence panel, said she would ve also felt queasy.
I would have a queasy feeling, too, though, to be candid with you, the longtime Senate Democrat said.She added that an investigation separate from the ongoing probe into Russian interference in the election is needed.
Read more: The Hill Former FBI Director Jim Comey said publicly that Ms. Lynch tried to change the way the investigation into Mrs. Clinton s emails was described.
He also hinted at other behavior which I cannot talk about yet .
He was concerned about Lynch s ability to do her job without impartiality.
Mr. Comey said that was one reason why he took it upon himself to buck Justice Department tradition and reveal his findings about Mrs. Clinton last year.If anyone had really looked into Lynch s background, they would know she s a big political hack.
We were shocked that she was confirmed by the Senate.
We felt like she was Eric Holder in a dress.
Well, it turned out that we were correct in our assumptions.Read more: WT