A few days ago, Great Britain voted to walk off a cliff by leaving the European Union, sending the world into a frenzy.
Parliament still has to ratify the vote, so it s not a binding resolution (yet), however, it has already had some terrible effects on the U.K.
Since the vote, the rate of blatant racism and hate crimes has skyrocketed over there.
Brexit turned the U.K. into what we ve become here, thanks to the rise of Donald Trump.What s sad is that, according to The Independent, many of the perpetrators of these crimes cite the leave vote as a reason for their crimes, because that totally makes it okay.
Yet, the victims of those crimes aren t just immigrants many of them are people who were born in the U.K., but don t look sufficiently domestic for the xenophobic white supremacists that have taken over the country.Sound familiar?
It s because we have that problem here, thanks to Trump and his xenophobic, white supremacist followers.
Just look at what CBS reporter Sopan Deb goes through while covering His Royal Racist.
He s repeatedly asked if he works for ISIS, and is frequently the target of Islamophobic remarks from Trump s loyal fans.
He was also assaulted by cops at Trump s cancelled rally in Chicago.Social media is abuzz with this.
There s a photo album on Facebook, called Worrying Signs, that contains well over 100 instances of people talking about racist encounters, or witnessing that racism happen to someone else.
Below is a sampling of tweets that show what s happening across the pond:Man s t-shirt reads Welcome to Britain now fit in or f*ck off .
Tells me he s got his country back.
Ciaran Jenkins (@C4Ciaran) June 25, 2016 It s to stop Muslims coming into this country.
Simple as that.
#Brexit #c4news pic.twitter.com/bFiAVXTtdt Ciaran Jenkins (@C4Ciaran) June 24, 2016Man: There s too many foreigners in this country, none of them work.
Me: 78% of them work.
Man: Well if they re in work good luck to them.
Ciaran Jenkins (@C4Ciaran) June 24, 2016 Been standing here five minutes.
Three different people have shouted send them home .
pic.twitter.com/cVvmYvC73o Ciaran Jenkins (@C4Ciaran) June 24, 2016Gloucester @Tesco: this is England, foreigners have 48 hours to f**k right off.
Who is foreign here?
Anyone foreign?
#Brexit Max Fras (@fullofeels) June 24, 2016 Silence from all the political parties in face of a spike of racist and xenophobic abuse is an absolute fucking disgrace.
Shame shame shame M4-T (@MatofKilburnia) June 26, 2016Some Polish workers interviewed on #Brexit by @BBCLookNorth did not want their faces to be shown for fear of reprisals.
New-look #UK.
David Head (@DavidHeadViews) June 24, 2016 So less than 20 hrs after Brexit results announced, I have the pleasure of being called a Paki c*nt in a suit by a homeless man.
Banking Buddha (@TheBuddhaSmiled) June 24, 2016Currently at the bus stop and a van went by with someone screaming WHITE POWER .Hmm.
#Brexit Stephanie (@NerdAboutTown) June 24, 2016 This evening my daughter left work in Birmingham and saw group of lads corner a Muslim girl shouting Get out, we voted leave .
Awful times Heaven Crawley (@heavencrawley) June 24, 2016Picture from Romford today.
(Photo with permission from the must-follow @diamondgeezer) pic.twitter.com/tsB56jAuww Jim Waterson (@jimwaterson) June 25, 2016 Police investigating after hateful notes were posted through letterboxes of Polish residents in Cambridgeshire following the Brexit vote.
LBC Breaking (@lbcbreaking) June 25, 2016About that emboldening of racists- I just confronted a pissed guy in the street who was shouting racist & sexist abuse at a black woman.
Tom Gann (@Tom_Gann) June 24, 2016 F*cking foreigner, go back to your country : just watched this outrageous racist incident in #Hackney https://t.co/87rqFKIhOv Shulem Stern (@ShulemStern) June 24, 2016Italian person I was w/ last night was assaulted for asking how someone voted.
Knocked out w/ a bottle, lost a tooth, stitches.
I m scared.
Kirsty Allan (@kirstyrallan) June 26, 2016Here in the U.S., we have a Trump fan running for Congress who wants to make America white again.
We have people who are just fine with Trump saying that Latinos are illegals who are rapists and killers.
We have a state governor who claimed the rise of drug abuse in his state was due to guys with names like D-Money, Smoothie, Shifty, and said that they impregnate a young white girl before they leave.
He replied to criticism with, Race is irrelevant.
Trump didn t create these problems, his rise just made it okay to be a racist pig in the open, and claim that anyone who s offended is just trying to force political correctness on them.
And so it is with the U.K., where the Brexit movement made it okay to be openly racist towards immigrants again.We hope these people the ones who spurred this xenophobic outrage by painting anyone who isn t a white, British native as one of their main problems are proud of themselves.Featured image by Christopher Furlong/Getty Images