As part of the Donald Trump campaign s public meltdown over the upcoming Republican presidential debate on Fox News, senior adviser Daniel Scavino Jr. made a bizarre allegation on social media.According to Scavino on Twitter, Fox News is feuding with Trump because it is apparently in bed with the Clintons?Fox News Corp. has donated over $3,000,000.00 to the Clinton's.
Makes you wonder what goes on behind the scenes .
pic.twitter.com/d7Z0aWRdO6 Daniel Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) January 27, 2016Yes, you read that right.
Fox News Channel, the network that was launched in 1996 as part of an effort to undermine the Clinton presidency, tireless boosters of George W. Bush and the cheerleaders of efforts to delegitimize President Obama, are part of the vast left wing conspiracy!The temper tantrum from Team Trump about right-wing anchor Megyn Kelly s participation in the debate reached a fever pitch on Tuesday, with Trump issuing a press release claiming that he would not be involved in the debate.
Trump is apparently still upset that Kelly, who has been the source of a series of attacks and conspiracy theories against the left, pointed out his misogynistic comments to figures like comedian Rosie O Donnell in the first debate televised on Fox.As is the case with so many of the Trump campaign s nonsensical assertions, this one is a belly-buster.
Fox News has been the most reliable ally of the right in its campaign to take down the Clintons.
Not a single assertion or crackpot conspiracy about the Clintons hasn t found its way to Fox News is in some shape.Fox has been the network of the Benghazi conspiracy theories, again and again pushing the disproven lie that Secretary Clinton or President Obama issued a stand down order for help when the U.S. compound in Libya was under attack.Fox was part of the team that brought you the Obama birth certificate conspiracy, and who for years broadcast Glenn Beck and his fevered dreams about how Obama was the second coming of Adolph Hitler.Now in the middle of a temper tantrum, in between attacking latinos and promoting the work of white power activists, the Trump campaign has decided that if it is at odds with Fox News, Fox is in league with the Clintons?And this is the campaign currently leading the Republican race for the presidency.Featured image via Flickr