If you were not aware there is a seriously old and debunked new theory going around the interwebz that the Earth is really flat after all.
Yes, seriously.
Recently, rapper B.o.B posted a bunch of evidence to support his belief that we ve all been lied to about the shape of our planet.
Unfortunately for him, it got really embarrassing when astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson got involved and schooled him.A couple of weeks ago, singer Tila Tequila tweeted about the #FlatEarth movement, claiming that the Earth isn t really round because buildings in New York City are all straight.Why are all the buildings in NYC standing straight up?
If earth was round then some of the buildings would have a slight tilt.
#FlatEarth Tila Tequila (@AngelTilaLove) January 7, 2016Apparently she isn t the only nutjob, because rapper B.o.B started tweeting the same mind-boggling nonsense:A lot of people are turned off by the phrase "flat earth" but there's no way u can see all the evidence and not know grow up B.o.B (@bobatl) January 25, 2016No matter how high in elevation you are the horizon is always eye level sorry cadets I didn't wanna believe it either.
B.o.B (@bobatl) January 25, 2016y'all be like "you're not high enough to see the curve keep going" pic.twitter.com/dzgYpIIao3 B.o.B (@bobatl) January 25, 2016how do you explain the horizon always being at eye level ?
https://t.co/Kzuc4r77CK B.o.B (@bobatl) January 25, 2016There is tweet after tweet with this same crazy speak.
About twenty tweets into his flat Earthfest, Neil deGrasse Tyson decided that he could no longer handle the dumbf*ckery and slapped down the rapper s loony conspiracy theory:@bobatl Earth's curve indeed blocks 150 (not 170) ft of Manhattan.
But most buildings in midtown are waaay taller than that.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) January 25, 2016@bobatl Polaris is gone by 1.5 deg S. Latitude.
You ve never been south of Earth s Equator, or if so, you've never looked up.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) January 25, 2016@bobatl Flat Earth is a problem only when people in charge think that way.
No law stops you from regressively basking in it.
Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) January 25, 2016@bobatl Duude to be clear: Being five centuries regressed in your reasoning doesn t mean we all can t still like your music Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) January 25, 2016If you thought B.o.B would listen to one of most prominent astrophysicists in the world, you d be wrong.
Instead of admitting that he had no idea what he was talking about, the rapper posted this:@neiltyson why can't the curvature of the earth be measured anywhere in nature?
why does only NASA have photos of the curve ?
r u a mason?
B.o.B (@bobatl) January 25, 2016He continued on like this for the rest of the day, convinced that he knows more than Tyson.Neil deGrasse must have realized that the rapper was completely bat sh*t because he just stopped responding.We don t blame him.Although many American children are taught that Christopher Columbus discovered the Earth was not flat, the belief that it is round dates back all the way to 6 Century B.C., but was proven by Aristotle.
It was then reaffirmed throughout history.There are a lot of mindnumbing conspiracy theories out there, but this one is exceptionally stupid.
Why B.o.B thinks he knows more than the scientific community is anyone s guess, but he really should keep his crazy off of social media sites before he embarrasses himself further.Featured image via Twitter