Since Donald Trump first escalated into our lives as a GOP presidential candidate, his one major policy platform has been the wall he says he s going to build along the Mexican border.
Most who have any common sense at all know that his proposed wall would be an impossibility and former Texas Governor Rick Perry says the wall won t happen at all.
It will be a digital wall.
Perry was interviewed on Monday by Snapchat s Peter Hamby on Good Luck America.
Hamby argued that the wall is not going to happen.
Perry, who is a Trump supporter agreed: Well, it s not, Perry said, explaining, It s a wall, but it s a technological wall, it s a digital wall.
Perry, who is supporting Trump, commented, There are some that hear this is going to be 1,200 miles from Brownsville to El Paso, 30-foot high, and listen, I know you can t do that.
Source: PoliticoIt s not the first time Perry has criticized the idea of the wall.
In January, he said that the wall will take literally years.
I don t care how good of a builder you are.
The cornerstone of Trump s campaign has been the wall, and it s never been a digital wall, whatever that might be.
This, from an October debate, is pretty much how Trump has been talking about the wall from the very beginning.
We re going to do a wall; we re going to have a big, fat beautiful door on the wall; we re going to have people come in, but they re going to come in legally, Trump said at the third Republican debate, hosted by CNBC.
Mexico s going to pay for the wall, he said.
I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders, but their leaders are much sharper, much smarter and more cunning than our leader.
Source: CNBCThis is how Trump describes the wall.
It doesn t sound digital: So you take precast plank, Trump said.
It comes 30 feet long, 40 feet long, 50 feet long.
You see the highways where they can span 50, 60 feet, even longer than that, right?
And do you a beautiful nice precast plank with beautiful everything.
Just perfect.
He added: I want it to be so beautiful because maybe someday they ll call it the Trump Wall.
Source: The Washington PostLet s not give Perry credit for being smarter than Trump just because he knows the wall is unrealistic.
A digital wall is just as ridiculous as the monstrous wall that Trump is proposing.
In a very misguided way, it seems Perry is still vying for Trump s VP slot, although contradicting the billionaire is probably not the way to do it.Featured image of Rick Perry by Michael B. Thomas at Getty Images | Featured image of Donald Trump by John Sommers II at Getty Images