Fox News host Dana Perino is finally so sick and tired of Republicans supporting Donald Trump despite all of the sexual assault allegations that she will no longer defend them.During Friday s edition of The Five, host and former George W. Bush press secretary Dana Perino slammed Donald Trump for talking about all of his accusers and insulting them instead of focusing on attacking Hillary Clinton.Perino is also furious that Republicans are still defending Trump s predatory behavior.
The Republicans that are defending this are really irritating me, she said.
I ve been like Mount Vesuvius all day.
Perino then specifically named Ben Carson and Jeff Sessions as just two of the many Republicans who remain on board the Trump train despite the Republican nominee s comments about groping women and the various allegations made against him by multiple women and the many past statements he has made that are now coming back to haunt him.And after Juan Williams joked that someone is going to call for cutting her mic, Perino took a serious tone, looked straight into the camera and while slicing the air with her hand told Republicans that she is done defending them.
Yeah, because women should be seen and not heard, apparently.
After 20 years of defending these guys, done.
Here s the video via YouTube.Perino is not the only Republican woman who has stopped defending Republicans due to their refusal to unendorse Trump.Wisconsin GOP activist Marybeth Glenn quit the party entirely in a series of posts on Twitter blasting Republicans for being cowards and legitimizing charges that conservatives are sexists after she defended them for years.
He (Trump) treats women like dogs, and you go against everything I and other female conservatives said you were & back down like cowards, she wrote.
I m sooo done.
If you can t stand up for women & unendorse this piece of human garbage, you deserve every charge of sexism thrown at you.
Now Perino just became the first Republican woman on Fox News to say she is done defending the GOP.In their refusal to withdraw their support from Trump, the Republican Party is destroying themselves by offending women across the country and now it is costing them allies in states and in the media.
This is something that may take generations for the party to recover from.
Of course, that s assuming they actually learn anything from the mess they made this year.Featured image via screenshot