Batman fans who have been looking forward to the upcoming Batman sequel, Justice League , a Harvey Weinstein movie, that is set to be released before Christmas of 2017, have taken to social media, demanding that the studio replace the Batman actor Ben Affleck.
A close friend of the now disgraced Hollywood kingpin producer and sexual predator, Harvey Weinstein, Ben Affleck, has received quite a bit of criticism after women in the industry came forward to accuse him of being complicit in Weinstein s behavior, and have even accused him of disgusting and inappropriate sexual behavior toward women in the industry.A close friend of the now disgraced Hollywood kingpin producer and sexual predator, Harvey Weinstein, Ben Affleck, has received quite a bit of criticism after women in the industry have come forward and accused him of being complicit in Weinstein s behavior and have even accused him of disgusting and inappropriate sexual behavior toward women in the industry.
The video below showing Affleck treating an MTV host like a sexual object during the taping of her show quickly went viral on Twitter:[VIDEO] Ben Affleck objectifies female reporter, comments on her breasts, then makes fun of "retarded" people with cerebral palsy.
#cringe pic.twitter.com/5OiBtYkkVB Austen Fletcher (@fleccas) October 12, 2017The lone female superhero, Gal Gadot, who plays Wonder Woman in the upcoming movie, recently came out with a statement of support for fellow actresses who have been victims of sexual abuse and condemnation for their sexual harassers: Ben Affleck, who stars as Batman in the Harvey Weinstein Batman Vs. Superman movie is not the only actor who should be shunned by moviegoers and fellow actors in the accepting, liberal, Hollywood crowd.
It s time for the spotlight to be shined on a few of the other actors in the Weinstein movie, including Justice League actor Jeremy Irons.Actor Jeremy Irons, who won a Best Actor Academy Award for his role in Reversal of Fortune , is set to play the role of Batman s butler, Alfred J. Pennyworthy in Weinstein s Batman sequel Justice League .
Given the pass Hollywood has clearly been giving sexual predators like Harvey Weinstein, Woody Allen, and Ben Affleck, it s not too surprising that Jeremy Irons has somehow managed to escape scrutiny by the media and by his fellow Hollywood actors after disgusting remarks he made following his role as a pedophile in the controversial Lolita movie.In 1998, Jeremy Irons starred as a pedophile in the movie Lolita, that was based on a 1955 novel written by Russian American novelist Vladimir Nabokov.
The novel is notable for its controversial subject: the protagonist and unreliable narrator a middle-aged literature professor called Humbert Humbert is obsessed with the 12-year-old Dolores Haze, with whom he becomes sexually involved after he becomes her stepfather.
Lolita is his private nickname for Dolores.Telegraph The actor Jeremy Irons, who starred in the film Lolita, says the hysteria sweeping the country over pedophilia is damaging relations between adults and children.Irons, who has two sons with his wife Sinead Cusack, says it is important to uphold a rigid social morality but also vital that adults are allowed to show affection to children.Pedophilia should be treated as a disease, he says in a BBC interview to be screened next week.
But it must also be recognized that children are attractive and that parental love has a sexual element.
It is very difficult because children under 16 are immensely attractive, he says.
Any father will tell you.
I think our children have to be protected.
But I don t think we need to have hysteria.
In the interview, Irons says his character was not a pedophile in the strict sense, as he knew that what he was doing was wrong .
Referring to his family, he describes the difficulties of judging the line between natural affection and pedophilia.
I remember when my son was 12 and he was like a god.
He just went through that sort of golden time for about 18 months.
I don t have a daughter but they do the same.
Parental love is sexual.
Children practice on their parents.
Girls will flirt outrageously with their fathers because they are practicing.
But we should know that that is practice.
Boys will flirt outrageously with their mothers in a different way.
His comments were seized on by child protection charities.
The NSPCC said: Such comments are ambiguous and could be interpreted by sex offenders as a justification for their behavior.
Esther Rantzen, the chairman of ChildLine, said: The words immensely attractive are not the best thing to say about children under 16.
Appealing or charming are more appropriate.
Irons, 56, made the remarks when asked about his portrayal of Humbert Humbert, the lecturer who falls for a young girl in the film of Vladimir Nabokov s novel Lolita.
When the film came out in 1998, he suggested that child abuse did not always ruin the life of the victim.In the video below, Jeremy Irons arrogantly discusses his own brilliance as he portrays a pedophile in Lolita .
Go to the 7:50 mark to hear Irons tell the interviewers how devastatingly attractive many 15-year-old girls are.
The greatness of the performance that Dominique Swain gives, is that she is all of our daughters.
Funny, wacky, silly, attractive, because many girls of 15 are devastatingly attractive.
WATCH:Irons also once posed the question about whether or not a son should be able to marry his father:NYDN -Academy Award-winning actor Jeremy Irons said Wednesday that while he doesn t have much of a strong opinion either way on same-sex marriage, he believes it poses interesting questions, including whether allowing same-sex marriage would open the door for interfamilial relationships.
Could a father not marry his son?
Irons asked HuffPost Live host Josh Zepps.
Irons argued that it s not incest between men because incest is there to protect us from inbreeding, but men don t breed, and wondered whether same-sex marriage might allow fathers to pass on their estates to their sons without being taxed.Jason Momoa who plays Aquaman in in Weinstein s Justice League movie was recently attacked on social media after a video was being circulated of him making a disgusting joke during a public forum, where he bragged about the benefit of being able to play Khal Drogo on the Game of Thrones series, and how he is able to rape beautiful women and get away with it .
Weinstein s Justice Leauge movie, surfaced on Twitter, where he was seen discussing as far as sci-fi and fantasy, I love that there s so many things you can do like rip someone s tongue out of their throat and get away with it and rape beautiful women.
Watch video below:tw: rapea horrific clip of jason momoa saying he loved working on #gameofthrones bc he "got to rape beautiful women."
men are trash.
pic.twitter.com/K2RBmsWEt6 bella goth (@peeanofreek) October 12, 2017After the video of the Game of Thrones actor went viral, he apologized for his truly tasteless comment on Instagram.