San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick again took to his knee during the national anthem in Sunday s game against the Buffalo Bills, but before that, a loud chant of USA, USA could be heard at the stadium from those offended by his right to silently protest against racial inequality.The chants weren t even the worst thing on display.
Just outside of the stadium, t-shirts were being sold with an image of Kaepernick with a rifle sight on him.
The text on the t-shirt reads, Wanted and Notorious Disgrace to America.
Another t-shirt reads, Shut Up And Stand Up!
along with the quarterback s last name spelled Kaeperdick and an image of him.Robert Klempko of MMQB tweeted, Shirts with a rifle scope trained on Colin Kaepernick selling for $10 outside of Ralph Wilson stadium.
It gets even worse:Elsewhere outside the stadium, one group of fans were hitting a dummy wearing a Kaepernick jersey and an afro wig.
Per Klemko, one fan, yelled, Tackle the Muslim.
That ugly display was captured on video and so was this incident:Here's a very drunk Bills fan spearing a dummy with Kaepernick jersey and afro wig.
pic.twitter.com/PDo0NL2Pcp Robert Klemko (@RobertKlemko) October 16, 2016Klempko wrote in a following tweet, FWIW: Guy walking past this scene cupped his hands around his mouth and yelled, THIS JUST MAKES BUFFALO LOOK BAD!
FWIW: Guy walking past this scene cupped his hands around his mouth and yelled, "THIS JUST MAKES BUFFALO LOOK BAD!"
Robert Klemko (@RobertKlemko) October 16, 2016While conservatives consider Kaepernick s continued protest over racial inequality and oppression in the United States to be unpatriotic, they probably also think descending on Washington D.C. with t-shirts describing America s first black president as a scary black Kenyan is patriotic.
I don t understand what s un-American about fighting for liberty and justice for everybody, for the equality this country says it stands for, Kaepernick said after the game.
To me, I see it as very patriotic and American to uphold the United States to the standards that it says it lives by.
But Kaepernick was not alone.
Outside the stadium, African-Americans and whites knelt in solidarity with the quarterback s cause.#Bills fans, black and white, kneel during the anthem outside the stadium before the #49ers game.
pic.twitter.com/kCmsIs94GM Nick Veronica (@NickVeronica) October 16, 2016On a good note, Kaepernick said death threats are rare occurrences now.
On a bad note, he never should have received death threats in the first place.Photo by Thearon W. Henderson via Getty.