Donald Trump is easily the least qualified candidate to run for (and eventually win) the White House.
The most dangerous aspect of the fact that he has no government or military experience isn t necessarily the lack of experience itself, but rather his refusal to listen to the people who do have that experience and allow them to guide the ship of state in this dangerous and complicated world until he can be adequately brought up to speed.
Case in point his refusal to receive daily national intelligence briefings since his victory.According to The Hill, Trump has been given the green light by the Obama Administration to receive daily intelligence briefings prior to taking office the same ones that President Obama himself gets.
Instead, Trump has received just two of those briefings since he clinched the electoral victory and thus the presidency, because he is refusing to listen to intelligence officials.These briefings include the rapidly changing scope of national security threats on the world stage, something Trump is definitely woefully ignorant of.
However, being the egotistical scumbag that he is, Trump of course seems to believe himself to be above such petty concerns.
I never thought I d be saying this, but it seems that Trump s vice presidential-elect, Mike Pence, is showing himself to be the reasonable one here, and has taken to receiving the briefings himself, since Trump won t. You know we re in deep shit when the likes of the climate and evolution denying, anti-woman, anti-LGBTQ religious nut that is Mike Pence can be described as the reasonable voice in the room, but here we are.Of course, the sycophants who regularly make the rounds on all of the political talks shows to excuse away Trump s dangerous nonsense are pushing back on the idea that he is out of his element and needs all the help he can get in this area before taking the oath of office.
Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) insisted in an interview with the Washington Post, which first broke this alarming development, that the security of America and her people is Trump s No.
1 priority, going on to say that he thinks Trump is taking it very seriously.
Ever more defensive, Nunes continued: Look how many leaders he s met with, how many phone calls he s done, positions he s filled.
People who are being critical need to get a life.
No, we, the citizens of this great country have every right to push back on bizarre and dangerous irregularities like this, Rep. Nunes.
Here we have a man who knows nothing about the world attempting to lead it on the most potentially lethal ego trip the world has ever seen and who refuses to take the advice of those who have the potential to save us all.
A top security official has already said that Trump, quote, has a lot of catching up to do, in this arena, and yet he is refusing to get the help he needs.Actions speak louder than words, and Trump s actions say that he is more interested in parading candidates for his cabinet for the cameras in some kind of dangerous and bizarre real world reality show, using his new position to wheel and deal in his own business interests, and flying around the country in his jet rather than actually, you know, trying to learn how to run the nation and lead the free world.Be very afraid, America.
Be very, very afraid of what we have gotten ourselves into.Featured image via Zach Gibson/Getty Images