Honestly, while Republicans may be quaking in their boots over the death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, right wing con artists must be squealing in glee.
The sudden death of Scalia is a veritable gold mine of fear and anger that the conservative entertainment complex can mine for years to come.
Despite there being absolutely nothing suspicious about a 79 year old overweight man that smoked and drank dying of a heart attack, the right is building a delightful cottage industry of Scalia conspiracies and warning of the all the horrors to come because he died:On his most recent Prophetic Perspective on Current Events broadcast, right-wing televangelist Rick Joyner declared that something smells like a rat in the recent death of Justice Antonin Scalia and warned that America could descend into civil war over efforts to replace him on the Supreme Court.Joyner said that you can t help but think that something suspicious is going on regarding Scalia s death since no autopsy was performed.
They rushed him in there and started the embalming process like they didn t want an autopsy, he said.
I m not saying that he was murdered, but you can t help but wonder.
Joyner went on to say that just as the Supreme Court s Dred Scott decision eventually plunged this nation into the Civil War, the court s recent marriage equality decision is likewise tearing this nation apart and could soon result in a violent conflict.Of course, the Lawd JAYSUZ Christ will save you from the coming civil war and collapse of civilization but ONLY if you donate $49.99 a month to HIS servants on Earth to prove how much you love JAYZUS!Hundreds of other sleazy fear profiteers are following suit and whipping the right wing into a frenzy of paranoia that the liberals have begun their War on Murika and may be coming to get YOU any time now!
But not if you buy this doomsday prepper set for 5 easy installments of $99.99!But all of their disgusting exploitation of the stupid and gullible, the right does have a point about the impending violence.
Even if Obama is forced to appoint a moderate conservative to the Court, that tilts it sharply away from the far right.
Even worse, all signs point to a Democratic president and Congress in 2017 and Anthony Kennedy will be 80 years old next year.
With a 5-4 left-leaning Court, everything the right has built in the last 30 years with the help of massive judicial activism will fall apart.With scumbags like Rick Joyner happily egging them to make a quick buck, there is literally zero chance we will not see an increase in domestic terrorism as the conservative base loses their freedom to oppress everyone else.
Murika.Featured image via Motherjones