Now that Ted Cruz has dropped out of the presidential race and Donald Trump looks like he s going to be the Republican nominee, Sarah Palin came out in full support and stupidity for her favorite candidate.Taking to her Facebook page, Palin made a video where she praised The Donald and thanked his supporters for believing in the disgraced frontrunner.
She said: To all of you who believed in making a real difference in our politics and in the way things have been done in the past that have put America in a pretty precarious position.
Thank you so much for supporting Trump and believing in this idea of being able to make America great again.
We re finally on the road to do so, but we do have to unite first.
The former governor of Alaska, who is also the failed GOP vice presidential candidate of 2008, has decided that she s more than qualified to predict the success of a Trump presidency, and has a message for any smart Democrats that might be listening.
Her advice to them?
Unite behind Donald Trump.
Addressing GOP and independents and smart Democrats, Palin said: Truly it is time to come together, pull together remember that united we will stand, our country will stand united.
Divided, we re going to fall.
So now, after participating in some really healthy, kind of arduous competition, and now, more than ever, it s time to come together and put some differences aside.
Stand on principle, that principle that, yeah, we have opportunity to make America great again.
We ve needed a revolution, and we ve found our revolutionary.
Thanks for all your hard work.
Congratulations, Donald J. Trump and here we go, on the road to make America great again.
You can watch the video below:Sarah Palin is one of those GOPers that we wish would just go away, but she always seems to find a way to put herself back into the spotlight and remind us of her existence.
When Trump decided to run for president, Palin had found her political soulmate and didn t hesitate to back him.
The crazy thing is, she thinks the rest of us are stupid enough to follow in her footsteps.To ask Democrats to unite under a party that has built their values on hate and inequality is ludicrous and you have to possess a special sort of stupidity to even suggest this.
Most Americans even many Republicans know that Trump is in no condition to lead the country.
So no matter who the nominee for the Democratic party is, the majority of the country will be voting blue in November.
No one not even the GOP wants to see Trump in the White House.Featured image via Alex Wong / Getty Images