For months now, Republicans and some in the Bernie Sanders camp have been looking for a smoking gun; a damning piece of evidence that proves, without a shadow of a doubt, that Hillary Clinton is cheating.
The YouTube channel, SourceFed, thought they found the smoking gun, when they demonstrated what they thought was irrefutable proof that Google was in the tank for Hillary Clinton.
Unfortunately, SourceFed has no idea how Google works.The premise behind the conspiracy theory involves Google s predictive search or autocomplete.
When users type in partial key phrases, like Hillary Clinton cri, other search engines, like Bing and Yahoo, list as a possible search phrase, Hillary Clinton crimes.
Google doesn t.Here s the video:This is what I get when I type in Hillary Clinton cri on Google.Yahoo gives me this:Bing, this:After watching the video, I conducted my own little experiment.
Surely, if Google was in the tank for Clinton, it would show up under non-predictive search results, right?
For example, I typed in the words, Hillary Clinton in Google, and below the paid content and the standard things on top, like Wikipedia, there s a whole lot of negative stuff:Those are the listings on page one.
Going deeper into the searches brings up a lot more negative than positive.Unfortunately, my experiment isn t any more scientific than SourceFed s, but others know more and they say that it s SourceFed that was manipulating the search results, not Google.
Google, which should surprise few, has a more sophisticated search engine than either Bing or Yahoo.
They do sort of manipulate searches, but not to influence public opinion.
They don t include unfounded negative listings in their autocomplete options, no matter how many people are searching those rumors.
Clinton has never been convicted or even indicted of a crime, hence it not showing up.
By the same token, entering Donald Trump la does not bring up Donald Trump lawsuits, despite the fact that a whole lot of people are searching for information about his lawsuits.
It does include Donald Trump laughing, though.Just to test that, I entered Bill Clinton i, because we know he was impeached, and surely, if Google were manipulating autocomplete results for Hillary, then they would certainly do it for her husband, right?
Wrong:Remember that Bernie Sanders rape fantasy essay from eons ago, that absolutely no one should care about?
Google doesn t care about it either:Similarly, I did a search for Donald Trump bri, half expecting results for his alleged bribery of two Attorneys General.
Nothing:The most ridiculous part of the SourceFed allegation, though, is their assumption that people don t continue and enter all the letters and hit enter, which would bring up numerous rumors, conspiracy theories and allegations, including the accusations of search manipulations by Google.
You d think they d at least keep themselves from looking bad in their search rankings, right?
They don t.Here s what Google has to say about it: Claims to the contrary simply misunderstand how Autocomplete works.
Our Autocomplete algorithm will not show a predicted query that is offensive or disparaging when displayed in conjunction with a person s name.
More generally, our autocomplete predictions are produced based on a number of factors including the popularity of search terms, said the statement.Featured image via YouTube.