Donald Trump is now the unofficially declared Republican nominee.
Congratulations, Republicans, you went from Abraham Lincoln, to Dwight D. Eisenhower, to George W. Bush, and now Trump.
We didn t think it could get much worse, but it did.Thankfully for the Democrats and other sane Americans, both Clinton and Sanders stand to beat Trump in a landslide in a general election.
The math favors Clinton to be the Democratic nominee, for she only needs roughly 180 more delegates out of the 1,100+ left in the rest of the contests.
No matter who you support, this is a good thing.So, unless there is a divine intervention (on both sides), it s going to be Trump v. Clinton.Anti-establishment Republicans are elated though for some weird reason their candidate is screwed.Take a look at the numbers: CNN has Clinton beating Trump 54-41 percent, a thirteen point lead.
That s pretty sizable.
And what s even more remarkable is the fact that Trump leads Clinton with white voters by only nine points (52-43).
Remember, white voters are supposed to be Trump s saving grace in this election the angry white voter, new-age Southern Strategy is supposed to carry the xenophobic buffoon, and he is only leading by nine points.In 2008, McCain garnered 55 percent of white voters to Obama s 43 percent 12 point difference and still lost.In 2012, Romney nabbed 59 percent of whites to Obama s dismal 39 percent a 20 point difference and still lost.Projections show that Trump will have to win 70 percent of white voters if he wants to take the White House.
And why is that?
Because Clinton is absolutely crushing him among non-white voters.
In CNN s poll, 81 percent of nonwhite voters are backing Clinton, while 14 percent are backing Trump, a 67 point difference.That s not even taking into consideration the entire female vote, which Trump is losing in historic proportions.And it certainly doesn t help that Republicans have lost ground with white voters (and white men) while Democrats have picked up the Republican s slack.
Reuters found:Among whites under 40, the shift is even more dramatic.
In 2012, they were more likely to identify with the Republican Party by about 5 percentage points.
In 2015, the advantage flipped: Young whites are now more likely to identify with the Democratic Party by about 8 percentage points.Bottom line: the white vote cannot and will not save Donald Trump.
The face of the nation has changed, the demographics have shifted, and it s no longer going to be the white man calling the shots.
And no matter how many races and religions Trump wants to ban, the rhetoric will not be enough for his racist base.
Of course never say never.
There is always a chance he could win if Democrats get too comfortable and stay home.
But if Democrats get out and vote, Trump will lose, and lose huge.Let s put the final nail in the white dominance coffin and send a message to the bigots on the Trump train.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images