MSNBC reporter Kasie Hunt began her segment on sexual harassment in Washington by telling the show s viewers, Funnily enough, I caught up in the basement of the capitol today with Alaska Governor Sarah Palin today.
Funnily enough?
Isn t this the same network who spent an excessive amount time criticizing Sarah Palin s grammar?Hunt asked Palin, who endorsed the embattled Roy Moore in the Alabama GOP primary race, to share her thoughts on sexual harassment with their viewers.
Palin told Hunt, It s not a partisan issue, so when we see this happening today, I think that it leads to a lot of questions about what standards are going to be applied to whom.
WFB Hunt followed up by asking Palin whether she has ever experienced sexual harassment in the workplace as an ambitious woman in public life.
I think a whole lot of people know that I m probably packing, and so I don t think there s a whole lot of people who would necessarily mess with me, said Palin, a vocal advocate of the Second Amendment.
I don t mean to be lighthearted; this is a serious issue.
WATCH:Sara Palin on sexual harassment: "I think a whole lot of people probably know I'm probably packing so I don't think there's a whole lot of people who would necessarily mess with me."
pic.twitter.com/WqORpJ594P MSNBC (@MSNBC) November 16, 2017 It really stinks for women in the workplace that for too long, men have thought they can get away with kind of being that old-school thinking that it s OK to belittle and harass women, Palin continued.Palin s comments about sexual harassment came hours after Democratic Sen. Al Franken (Minn.) was accused of groping and kissing KABC anchor Leeann Tweeden without her consent during a rehearsal for a skit for troops during a USO tour in the Middle East in 2006.
The floodgates are really open right now, Palin said.
That could lead to a lot of false accusations that really harm an innocent person.
Palin s comments about false accusations may have been a reference to the sexual misconduct allegations against Alabama Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore.Palin endorsed Moore in the Republican primary against Luther Strange a few months ago.