Once again, the Republican Party should be embarrassed that Donald Trump is their nominee.During a press conference on Wednesday, Trump answered questions about his ties to Russia and Vladamir Putin.
He denied it, of course, but openly urged Russia to commit an act of espionage against Hillary Clinton and the United States Government.First, Trump condemned the hack of the DNC that gave him ammunition to use against Democrats and then he urged Russia to do even more.
Russia, if you re listening, I hope you re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing, Trump said.
I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.
Here s the video via YouTube.Well, the media certainly did not reward Trump for calling upon Russia to continue their cyber attacks against Hillary Clinton and our government institutions.David Gregory compared Trump to a child playing with matches and said he has run out of words to express his shock at the things Trump says and does.CNN panelist Christine Quinn ripped Trump a new one for urging Russia to continue the attack against his political opponent.
The man who thinks he s going to be the president of the United States stood in front of the world and called on Russia and Putin to hack the emails of the former Secretary of State.
I mean, it s honestly, and I know I m partisan in this clearly, but it s almost treasonous!
Former Republican South Carolina Lt.
Governor Andre Bauer responded by going even further than Quinn by claiming Clinton committed treason outright because 30,000 emails went missing.
But if that s the case, former President Bush should have been tried and imprisoned for treason years ago when millions of emails were deleted during his administration.
Bauer also didn t seem to have a single problem with what Trump said and defended him.Here s the video via YouTube.The bottom line is that Donald Trump just told a repressive Russian regime to continue hacking a former high-tanking government official who could very well be the next president of the United States.
This hack is a serious breach in national security and Trump is egging it on as long as it helps him gain politically.It s treason and those who commit treason are not allowed to hold office in this country.This is outrageous and shows that Republicans are totally incapable to leading this nation and only further solidifies the fear that Donald Trump would be nothing more than Putin s puppet if he wins in November.Featured image via screen capture