Carl Paladino s racism against President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama is so bad that his own son just publicly denounced him.Last week, Paladino, who served as a Trump campaign official, wrote a wish list full of hate against the Obamas.
Obama catches mad cow disease after being caught having relations with a Herford, Paladino wrote.
[Obama] dies before his trial and is buried in a cow pasture next to Valerie Jarret, who died weeks prior, after being convicted of sedition and treason, when a Jihady cell mate mistook her for being a nice person and decapitated her, he continued.Of Michelle Obama, he said: I d like her to return to being a male and let loose in the outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with Maxie, the gorilla.
The racist outburst caused much outrage , and even Paladino s own son could no longer sit silent.Ellicott Development Company CEO William Paladino released a statement condemning his father on Christmas Eve.
Ellicott Development takes pride in being a culturally diverse company with over 535 hard-working dedicated employees.
We value and respect our employees, friends, partners and all of our commercial and residential tenancies and we do not condone the statements made about the President of the United States and his wife.
They were disrespectful and absolutely unnecessary.
However, many people pointed out in the comments that Carl Paladino is still the Chairman of the Board at Ellicott and that it s not enough to condemn his remarks if he is still allowed to hold onto his position.
Therefore, a boycott has been called for against Ellicott and any business, government, and bank connected to them.Carl Paladino doesn t appear to be bothered by the condemnation either, suggesting that his son is only publicly breaking with him while privately supporting him.
There is no reason for the company and its 550 employees to suffer from my politic, especially with the hate spewed by the activists who are devoid of any understanding of our history, our government and our constitution, the elder Paladino wrote in an email to the New York Post.What Carl Paladino said about the Obama family is disgusting and he should be expelled from any remaining position he has with Ellicott and a stronger condemnation needs to be released from the company.
But let s all remember that Carl Paladino worked for Donald Trump s campaign, which means Trump condoned Paladino s racism.
That s not surprising, of course, considering Trump pandered to white supremacists throughout his campaign and has some working in his new administration.Featured Image: Screenshot