Donald Trump has become increasingly paranoid and frustrated as the investigation into ties between his 2016 presidential campaign, his outside associates, and perhaps even himself and the Russian government heats up.
There have already been two rounds of subpoenas issued to Trump s disgraced National Security Adviser, Michael Flynn, regarding this matter.
Further, it doesn t help that Trump s own White House is leaking like a sieve to the New York Times and the Washington Post regarding the chaos within especially when it comes to the handling of the Russia matter.
Things are so worrisome at this point that Trump has already hired outside lawyers to represent him.
So, how is Team Trump planning to handle all the scandal that continues to plague their White House?
Why, they are going to wage war on investigators and leakers for years, if necessary.Axios is reporting that Trump will have his street fighters devise a plan to target leaks from within the intelligence community and other parts of the government with zeal, and they also have come to realize that the Russia investigation is not going away just because they want it to.
They cannot fire or lie their way out of this one, and the press isn t going to let go of a story this big.
According to a Trump-backer, they are ready for this fight: The White House is embracing the fight, which is going to last as long as Donald Trump is president.
We re getting street fighters ready to go.
Axios has also obtained a detailed a war room plan regarding this escalating war between the White House and the rest of the government:The thing is, though, that the Trump White House can t even function on a day to day basis.
They aren t even staffed up like a normal White House would be by now.
The same goes for other major administration agencies, such as the State Department.
Further, the chaos inside barely allows the staffers to get anything at all done other than try to control Trump s television time, feed him positive news so that he doesn t go off the rails too often, and to control his tweeting which they seem to be failing miserable at.The idea that these incompetent wannabe authoritarians are any match for the apparatus of the United States government is downright laughable.
Likely, we ll just get even more self-incrimination and meme-worthy buffoonery out of this plan.Good luck, Trump staffers.
You ll need it.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images