Tuesday night was a very big night for Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton.
The former Secretary of State had a clean sweep of wins across all five states that held primaries.
These wins will help push her forward towards her path of securing the Democratic nomination for president.However, where there is the glory of being declared the victor, there will always be someone there to tear you down, and not just in a way coming from the opposition, but rather in weird unexpected ways.
Such as, being told one is not celebrating properly.
Which is exactly what MSNBC Morning Joe host Joe Scarborough did to Hillary Tuesday night.Apparently, according to Scarborough, HillaryClinton wasn t gleeful enough to his liking, and wasn t presenting herself in a way that he thought she should be on her victorious evening.
If you watched Hillary s speech, she was, in fact very happy and gleeful, but apparently Scarborough thought differently.
So, he told her to smile.
Smile.
You just had a big night.
#PrimaryDay Joe Scarborough (@JoeNBC) March 16, 2016If Hillary never smiled for the rest of her life, guess what, that s perfectly fine.
Scarborough has no right to tell a woman she needs to smile just because he thinks she should.Telling a woman to smile is ridiculously sexist.
If you can t grasp that it is, that likely says more about you than it does about anyone else.
Women shouldn t be required to smile at the drop of a hat just because someone thinks they should.
If it s not required of men, why should it be of women?
Not to mention the fact that it is SO annoying.
Women, and I speak for myself as someone who has been told to smile regularly, are, quite frankly, tired of it.However, leave it to Samantha Bee to let him know that it s perfectly okay for a woman not to smile all the frickin time..@JoeNBC pic.twitter.com/YZHVIKxE8O Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) March 16, 2016Which is also how women should look at Joe Scarborough from now on.Featured image via Instagram