It s official: No one in the Obama family can do or say anything without the Stupid Part of America calling them n*ggers.
As she gave her final, powerful commencement speech as First Lady, Michelle Obama dropped a harsh truth on the graduating class of CUNY the White House was built largely using slave labor: It s the story that I witness every single day, when I wake up in a house that was built by slaves.
And I watch my daughters two beautiful, black young women head off to school waving goodbye to their father, the President of the United States, the son of a man from Kenya who came here to American to America for the same reasons as many of you: To get an education and improve his prospects in life.
Obama is correct.
WhiteHousehistory.org notes that black people provided much of the labor that went into building the White House after the U.S. government failed to find qualified workers they could pay to do the work (slave masters were, of course, paid):The D.C. commissioners, charged by Congress with building the new city under the direction of the president, initially planned to import workers from Europe to meet their labor needs.
However, response to recruitment was dismal and soon they turned to African American enslaved and free to provide the bulk of labor that built the White House, the United States Capitol, and other early government buildings.Stonemason Collen Williamson trained enslaved people on the spot at the government s quarry at Aquia, Virginia.
Enslaved people quarried and cut the rough stone that was later dressed and laid by Scottish masons to erect the walls of the President s House.
The slaves joined a work force that included local white laborers and artisans from Maryland and Virginia, as well as immigrants from Ireland, Scotland, and other European nations.The uneducated f*ckwits at Young Conservatives, naturally, complained that the First Lady whined about that little slavery issue that we should pretend never happened, calling her ungrateful and informing their readers that Obama is ungrateful because she correctly noted the history of her current home.
You know, Michelle if you don t like living there, move out, writes blogger John.
S. Roberts, who wonders why some people (read: the blacks ) just can t move beyond the fact that their ancestors were owned by white people.Naturally, commenters agreed, calling the First Lady a n*gger because that s pretty much the extent of their intelligence.
They, too, think she is ungrateful because white people did her a favor by shipping her ancestors over here and forcing them to work and endure brutal beatings, rapes, and murders: Over at right-wing propaganda mill, Weazel Zippers, the sentiment was the same and they didn t need to write a single word.
They just pasted a screenshot of a tweet about the statement.
Conservatives are horrible and, unfortunately, each and every single one of them will be headed to the polls in November to vote for Trump.
We can not allow someone who fosters this sort of hatred to succeed President Obama.
Be sure to get out and do your duty in November vote BLUE across the board and kick the haters out of their respective offices.Featured image via screen capture