This morning, Trump s former campaign manager was indicted for conspiracy against the United States, a.k.a.
treason (among other things you can read the full list of charges here), and ordered to turn himself in to the FBI.
As he did so, every news outlet was busy covering it, reporting on the situation as it developed.
Except for Fox News.
They must have needed some time to decide on their spin because they were reporting on candy and hamburger emojis while the story on Paul Manafort unfolded.Seriously.
They were reporting on Halloween candy and some kind of hamburger emoji crisis at Google as the first indictment in Robert Mueller s Russia investigation was unsealed and handed down.8:30AM: CNN, Bloomberg, MSNBC, Fox pic.twitter.com/zfbo4PriSo Rogue CPI (@RogueCPI) October 30, 2017As of 8:41, Fox has moved on to real issues.
pic.twitter.com/DwGqgthW5R Rae Whitlock (@RaeWhitlock) October 30, 2017This is FOX News currently pic.twitter.com/4yInN7exr5 Josh S nchez (@jnsanchez) October 30, 2017CNN: Paul Manafort to turn himself in to FBI today MSNBC: Manfort Told to Surrender Fox News: Important story on hamburger emojis ???
pic.twitter.com/AQ8GxpAh8N StrictlyCovfef ?
(@christoq) October 30, 2017Everybody else is talking about the Paul Manafort arrest, @foxnews is talking about cheeseburger emojis.
#MuellerMonday pic.twitter.com/Y8vqPcIMYG CarrieTBow (@CarrieTBow) October 30, 2017They did start talking about Manafort, and even published an opinion piece from contributor Erick Erickson, who is trying to spin this news into nothing by saying that it looks like the charges against Manafort have nothing to do with Trump.
He is, of course, calling the whole thing a conspiracy in which Mueller comes up completely empty on the collusion story.Har de har har.
Manafort is a slimeball.
Unless Trump has something serious on him (and what could be more serious than the charges already against him?
), Manafort will probably place his own ass above Trump s.Featured image via Frederick M. Brown/Getty Images and Twitter