One by one, Donald Trump is screwing over everyone he promised to help when he wanted their votes.
Today, it was our military veterans and their small children who got the shaft, thanks to Trump s policies.
A memorandum was leaked online explaining to Army families with young kids that the early education programs they have come to rely on are coming to an end just one week from today as a result of Trump s hiring freeze.
The memo announced that United States Army Garrison (USAG) Wiesbaden CYS Part-Day Programs would no longer be available as of March 1.
These programs include the Strong Beginnings, Part-Day Preschool, and Part-Day Toddler programs.Printed on Army letterhead, the document clearly states that this closure is a result of staff shortage due to the Federal hiring Freeze.
This Hiring Freeze prevents CYS from replacing staff who depart for any reason to include normal rotation.
Because they are unable to hire new teachers, thanks to Trump s hiring freeze, they have found themselves with only enough staff to operate mandatory core programs.
According to the memorandum, Part-Day programs are being closed to sustain Full-Day programs that are essential for military readiness.
The last day for these Part-Day programs will be February 28.
It is with deep regret that USAG Wiesbaden CYS must take this action; however, mandated core services that support Soldier readiness must be maintained and this can only be done by moving staff into the core programs from the Part-Day programs, the memo reads.
It is our intention to once again offer these Part-Day programs as soon as we are authorized to hire and have sufficient trained staff on board.
On the campaign trail, Trump swore up and down that he was going to take care of the men and women who serve in our military.
But, like most other things he has said, this has turned out to be just one more broken promise.
And now, it is the children of those who are willing to give their lives for this country that are ultimately getting screwed.If you don t think @realDonaldTrump s #hiringfreeze hurts our military, and military families, think again.
This just leaked online.
pic.twitter.com/H69Uh8Fukq VoteVets (@votevets) February 21, 2017Featured image via Christopher Furlong/Getty Images