Ivanka Trump is complicit in what her father Donald Trump is doing to America and Saturday Night Live hilariously made sure everyone knows about it.In yet another classic commercial spoof, Saturday Night Live brilliantly mocked Ivanka, portrayed by Scarlett Johansson, with an advertisement for a perfume called Complicit.
As dressed in gold Ivanka walks across a ballroom where champagne is being served and guests are gawking at her as a narrator speaks highly about her without choking on the words.
Every man knows her name.
Every woman knows her face.
When she walks into a room, all eyes are on her.
She s Ivanka.
And a woman like her deserves a fragrance all her own.
A scent made just for her.
Because she s beautiful, she s powerful, she s Complicit.
She s a woman who knows what she wants, the narrator continues.
And knows what she s doing.
Complicit.
Ivanka then walks up to a mirror and applies lipstick but her reflection is that of her father as played by Alec Baldwin.
She doesn t crave the spotlight, but we see her.
Oh, how we see her.
The narrator then goes on to describe Ivanka using terms like feminist but has no idea why they apply to her.
A feminist, an advocate, a champion for women, the narrator says.
But, like, how?
She s loyal.
Devoted, but probably should ve bounced after that whole Access Hollywood bus thing, the narration continued in reference to Donald Trump bragging about grabbing women s genitals without their consent.
Oh well, Ivanka said.The commercial then concluded with an epic and accurate slogan for the Complicit perfume.
For the woman who could stop all this but won t. Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, Ivanka Trump has a lot of influence over her father but she has failed to use it.
Instead, white nationalists like Steve Bannon are pulling the strings and America is suffering for it.
Ivanka Trump should be ashamed of herself and she should always be remembered as the one person who could have done something but didn t. That makes her complicit.Featured image via screenshot