If there s one person who is loved by all in the Democratic Party, it s Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren.
Her no-nonsense attitude and get it done approach to policy and politics are things that cannot be matched.
She is so loved that her endorsement of any particular candidate is one that is sought after and coveted.People have been waiting on pins and needles to see who Warren will endorse in the Democratic primary.
Will it be Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton?
And after the Iowa caucuses, where Hillary and Bernie were in a statistical tie, people would like to know now, more than ever, who she will pick in hopes that it will push one candidate ahead over the other.However, Warren, being the magnificent person that she is, is choosing to focus on the issues and not to politicize things by muddying the waters with support for any one candidate, said: No endorsements now.
I think that what the Democrats are doing is terrific.
We re out talking about the issues.
I look at the Republican debates and the difference between what they re doing and what the Democrats are doing that really shows who s on whose side.
Warren knows that when you pick a particular side of the debate the message can sometimes be lost.
Both Hillary and Bernie are talking about the economy.
Both Hillary and Bernie are talking about making healthcare and college affordable.
Both Hillary and Bernie are seeking to continue progress in the United States and not let the reins fall back in to the hands of Republicans.
Warren is letting the issues be explored, and solutions be offered, while letting the people decide for themselves.Both candidates running would love a Warren endorsement.
She s showed support for both Sanders and Clinton in their approach to Wall Street and what needs to be done.
So, while many supporters of either candidate will love to say that she s hinted at one candidate or the other, cases can be made for both.
So, like Warren said in regards to if she ll announce who she s endorsing, we ll see.
And everyone knows that s code for, I m not telling you either way.
Featured image: Flickr