Donald Trump thought bringing Juanita Broaddrick to the second presidential debate would be a good idea.For people who might have forgotten, in the early 1990s, when President Bill Clinton was running his first campaign, Broaddrick went public with her accusations that Clinton had raped her in the 1970s while running for governor and that Hillary had intimidated her into silence.As expected, it created a media circus.
No such accusation had ever been thrown at a presidential candidate in such a manner.However, years after the accusations surfaced, Broaddrick, in a sworn affidavit in December 1998, during the Paula Jones scandal, admitted that President Clinton had never made any un-warranted sexual advances towards here.As obtained by the Washington Post:3.
I met President Clinton more than twenty years ago through family friends.
Our introduction was not arranged or facilitated, in any way, by the Arkansas State Police.
I have never been an Arkansas state employee or a federal employee.
I have never discussed with Mr. Clinton the possibility of state or federal employment nor has he offered me any such position.
I have had no further relations with him for the past (15) years.4.
During the 1992 Presidential campaign there were unfounded rumors and stories circulated that Mr. Clinton had made unwelcome sexual advances toward me in the late seventies.
Newspaper and tabloid reporters hounded me and my family, seeking corroboration of these tales.
I repeatedly denied the allegations and requested that my family s privacy be respected.
These allegations are untrue and I had hoped that they would no longer haunt me, or cause further disruption to my family.
5. .
Specifically, I do not have any information to offer regarding a nonconsensual or unwelcome sexual advance by Mr. Clinton, any discussion offer or provision of state or federal employment or advancement in exchange for sexual conduct, or any use of state troopers to procure women for sex.
Requiring my testimony at a deposition in this matter would cause unwarranted attorney s fees and costs, disruption to my life and constitute an invasion of my right to privacy.
For these reasons, I have asked my attorney to advise Ms. Jones s counsel that there is no truth to the rumors they are pursuing and to provide her counsel with this sworn affidavit.Known as Jane Doe #5 at the time, Broaddrick admitted, to law enforcement and to the courts of this country (six years after the initial accusation), that President Clinton never raped her.And if Bill didn t rape her, how would Hillary Clinton have intimidated her into silence?Seems as though the Trump campaign didn t so their research.
Sad!Considering Broaddrick lied, could one see why Hillary Clinton wouldn t take too lightly to such awful and shameful accusations that were never true to begin with?
That s why women take her side on these issues.The fact that Donald Trump used a liar as a prop to deflect from his own sexual prowess shows how desperate and pathetic him and his whole campaign is.Featured image via Justin Sullivan/Getty Images