Donald Trump and the Republicans are about to prove once and for all that they are incapable of governing.Despite having control of Congress and the White House, Republicans are on the verge of causing a government shutdown because Trump is demanding that funding for his useless border wall be included in the budget.The deadline to pass a new budget is Friday, when the temporary funding bill that was passed in December expires.Over the weekend, Trump s budget director Mick Mulvaney made it clear that Trump is obsessed with funding the massive wall and that not funding the project would be unacceptable.
This suggests that Trump will veto any budget that does not include it.
We ve finally boiled this negotiation down to something we want very badly that the Democrats really don t like and that s the border wall, Mulvaney claimed.
At the same time, there s something they want very badly that we don t like very much, which are these cost-sharing reductions in the Obamacare payments.
Trump followed up with a series of tweets on Sunday.ObamaCare is in serious trouble.
The Dems need big money to keep it going otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone would have thought.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2017The Democrats don t want money from budget going to border wall despite the fact that it will stop drugs and very bad MS 13 gang members.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2017Eventually, but at a later date so we can get started early, Mexico will be paying, in some form, for the badly needed border wall.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2017Yes, Mulvaney and Trump are literally threatening to take healthcare away from Americans if Democrats and Republicans continue to refuse to waste taxpayer dollars on a wall that won t do anything to reduce the number of undocumented immigrants crossing into the country.As the Berlin Wall demonstrated, people will still find a way to cross the border if they are desperate enough, even at the risk of death.Also, the number of people crossing the border illegally is already way down and has been for some time.
The number was even dropping while President Obama was in office.
The drop in the number of undocumented immigrants crossing the border makes Trump s wall even more unnecessary.The wall would not only cost billions to build, it s likely that a Mexican company would be contracted to do the work and it would irreparably harm migration patterns of animals and destroy habitats.Overall, the wall is a bad idea.
But Trump is desperate to achieve anything as his first 100 days come to a close.
Trump made a lot of promises about what he would do in his first 100 days, and the border wall was his top promise.But the wall is an unpopular idea as well.
Only 28 percent of Americans support it, and Republicans and Democrats in the Southwest agree that it shouldn t be built.If Trump and Republicans continue to insist on wasting taxpayer dollars on a wall, a government shutdown is inevitable and Democrats won t be at fault.The last two major government shutdowns were in 1995 and 2013.
In both instances, a Democrat was in the White House.
But Republicans controlled Congress in 1995 and controlled the House in 2013 while Democrats controlled the Senate, albeit without a 60-vote majority and the fact that Republicans obstructed everything.The point is, however, that the American people blamed Republicans for both of those shutdowns.
And they will definitely blame Republicans again because Republicans control the White House and Congress this time.Republicans are literally facing a no-win scenario.Republicans in the House and Senate NEED Democrats in order to pass Trump s wall funding because 60 votes are needed in the Senate and it s likely that hardline conservatives will vote against the budget in the House.And since many Republicans also don t support the wall, it s looking like Trump will have to be the one to back down and we all know that Trump doesn t like backing down.
And that means he will be the one responsible for causing a government shutdown that will hurt our country, no matter hard hard he tries to pin the blame on Democrats.
Democrats do not control Congress, nor do they control the White House.
This is all on Trump and Republicans.Featured Image: Mark Wilson/Getty Images