Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is trying really hard to ignore the controversy and lawsuit surrounding Trump University.
Earlier this week he even attacked the media because they had the audacity to do their jobs and report on the lengths the university went to in their efforts to defraud people of their money.
On Thursday, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman appeared on MSNBC s Morning Joe to discuss Trump U and said the university was not legitimate and the GOP nominee knew it.
This is straight up fraud.
It s like selling people something you say is a Mercedes and it turns out to be a Volkswagen, Schneiderman said.
And even if some people say, Well actually, I kind of like the Volkswagen, it s still fraud because it s not a Mercedes.
This was not a university.
Although Trump claims that he will be vindicated and Trump U was completely above-board, the details of the three lawsuits against him tell a different story.
During an interview with Fox News in February, the billionaire claimed that he handpicked the staff for the school and those people did a good job.
AG Schneiderman told the hosts at Morning Joe that those statements were blatant lies: Trump s role was really as the pitchman.
And we ve got his videotapes, and we ve got his sworn testimony which undercuts every statement in the videotapes.
He said, My hand-picked experts will teach you my personal secrets.
He and the president of the university have already testified under oath he never met the instructors, they weren t hand-picked.
They weren t experts some of them came out of fast food and retail.
And he had nothing to do with the supposed secrets that were taught because he had nothing to do with the curriculum.The attorney general added that Trump scammed these people during one of the worst economic times in American history: So people were led to believe they were getting the personal secrets of Trump, during hard economic times, we re talking about 2008, 2009, 2010.
People wanted to scramble to find a way to make money, he duped them in, thousands of people paid millions of dollars and we re out to get them their money back.
Think about what all of this means for a minute.
Before the housing market collapse, Trump said that he wanted the bubble to burst so that he could make money.
That eventually happened and millions of Americans suffered greatly.
People lost their homes, their jobs, their savings, it was horrific.
So, after he prayed for their demise by wishing the crash would happen, he convinced people to go to Trump University so that they could get out of the holes they were in and become rich like him but it was all a scam.
Now this same person is running for president and he is one step away from the most powerful position in the world.
How did he get there?
By, once again, scamming people into believing that he will save them.Donald Trump is a horrible human being and we must come together and keep him out of the Oval Office.
So, remember, vote blue no matter who.Watch:NY @AGSchneiderman on Trump U: This is just straight up fraud https://t.co/OUjj1BEt81 Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) June 2, 2016Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images