There are times I want to just get up from my computer, walk out of my apartment, find a cave in the woods and live there until the human race inevitably wipes itself out.
After reading about this Creation scientist expert s scientific bat-shit insane theory about how Stonehenge was built, I was two miles down the road before deciding it would just be easier to sit at home and wait for the end to come.In the meantime, I will torment you with the following:Televangelist Jim Bakker invited Dr. Dennis Lindsay on to his program on Wednesday to discuss Lindsay s latest discovery in the realm of Creation Science: the truth behind Stonehenge.Hold on to your hats: Stonehenge, it turns out, was built by giants who were created by Satan.Lindsay told Bakker that these giants were tools of the devil, who seeks to destroy Israel because he s out to destroy God s creation and his whole plan of redemption and contaminate the human race.
Yes, I just deliberately inflicted permanent brain damage on you.
No, you will never get those brain cells back.
They re gone.
Dead.
Burned out for all time.After making my eyes bleed with this, it occurs to me that Creationists hate human achievement.
The very idea that primitive humans could accomplish the wonders of Stonehenge or the pyramids of Egypt infuriates them.
Especially if they occurred before or independent of Christianity.
These bible-humping freaks have a startlingly low opinion of humanity and would prefer to believe that giants and demons were responsible instead of human ingenuity and genius.Oh, and just to get in a bit of Muslim-bashing (because of course), he referred to the mosque on the Temple Mount (one of the most holy sites in Islam) as a squatter s hut because why stop at being a douche when you can go all the way to raging dickhead?
Here s the imbecilic video via Right Wing Watch:The only upside to this entire story is that it made me want to listen to They Might Be Giants so there s that.Featured image via screen capture