If you haven t heard, former Trump advisor Carter Page was the subject of a successfully-executed FISA warrant because of his dealings with Russia.
Former FBI agent Asha Rangappa notes that the bar to obtain a warrant is extremely high and that the process of obtaining one includes too many layers of approval to be granted without strong evidence.
Nevertheless, Trump and his associates continue to complain that members of his campaign and administration became the subject of investigations because of their illegal activity.On Tuesday, the Washington Post reported that Page became the focus of an investigation because a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court judge was thoroughly convinced that there was probable cause to believe Page was acting as an agent of a foreign power, in this case Russia.
Appearing on CNN, braindead Trump lemming Kayleigh McEnany worked hard to dispel any idea that Page colluding with Russia is evidence that members of the campaign colluding with Russia.
I don t think it s evidence of the Trump campaign colluding with Russia at all, she said.
He was a brief adviser on the campaign, and the campaign [was] trying to distance themselves from him.
In reality, Page was one of the first foreign policy advisors Trump named.
But look, I don t think we have any evidence to suggest that President Trump knew that this guy was a foreign agent, and he wanted him on his campaign because he wanted to collude with Russia, he said.
That is another step that you have to make, and I don t think there are facts there to show that.
Here s the thing: whether or not Trump knew is a nonissue.
When Trump was warned about Michael Flynn s shady dealing with Russia, he brushed it off and kept the disgraced General on as national security advisor.
He even fired the person who warned him.
It would not have mattered to Trump if he knew about Page, because for some reason it s cool to work with Russia under President* Trump.Watch the interview below:Featured image via screengrab