Only 38 states to go.
Obama is going to do more damage to the fabric of America in his final 7 months in office than any other President in history The ink was barely dry on President Obama s guidance regarding gender-neutral bathrooms the administration told U.S. public schools on Friday to let transgender students use bathrooms and locker rooms according to gender identity when opposing voices started shouting.And at least 7 of those voices in 6 states so far belonged to high-ranking state officials, beginning with North Carolina, where HB2 brought the controversy to the forefront:North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory (R) Says the U.S. Justice Department is displaying overreach by warning legal action and withholding federal funds unless HB2 which limits bathroom/locker room use to the gender on an individual s birth certificate is scrapped.Texas Governor Greg Abbott (R) Has declared that he will be working closely with North Carolina s governor in opposing the federal guideline.I announced today that Texas is fighting this.
Obama can't rewrite the Civil Rights Act.
He's not a King.
#tcot https://t.co/vDgfQPZXjR Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) May 13, 2016Texas Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick (R) Has stated that Texas does not want any dirty money tied to policies that amount to extortion:Texas Lt. Gov.
@DanPatrick on Obama administration guidance on transgender bathrooms: "We will not be blackmailed" https://t.co/28tFsicoo8 CNN Newsroom (@CNNnewsroom) May 13, 2016Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson (R) Advised schools in his state to ignore the guidance:As Gov., I recommend that school districts disregard @POTUS's guidance on gender identification in schools.
>> https://t.co/mFxgtOcbml Gov.
Asa Hutchinson (@AsaHutchinson) May 13, 2016Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange (R) Says the issue should be decided by parents, teachers, and principals not by federal bureaucrats.Alabama AG Luther Strange vows to fight 'absurd' Obama order on transgender school bathrooms https://t.co/VnCUcZ6jSz AL.com (@aldotcom) May 13, 2016Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin (R) Released a statement saying that the federal government had no authority to interfere in local school districts bathroom policies.Our statement regarding Obama's proposed bathroom rules for public schools: https://t.co/50Zg6PqXOY Matt Bevin (@MattBevin) May 13, 2016Missouri Lieutenant Governor Peter Kinder (R) Released a statement saying that Obama was abusing his power, and that America needs guidance and prayer.Via: Independent JournalUPDATE: Six more states have joined in protest against Obama s unlawful transgender bathroom decree, they are: West Virginia, Arizona, Kansas, Nebraska, Utah, and Maine.
The number of states who will fight back will certainly increase, as the public becomes more and more active, contacting their legislators and governors, demanding they stand up to King Obama.