There s a good chance that you haven t been inside either a Kmart or a Sears in decades.
Most Americans haven t, which is why the brands (both owned by Sears) are in trouble.On Thursday, they might have had some inspiration, though.
Nordstrom dropped their line of Ivanka Trump clothing and jewelry brand and despite a bitter tweet from Ivanka s father, their stock surged.My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom.
She is a great person always pushing me to do the right thing!
Terrible!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017This decision made Trump so furious that he sent his spokesperson, Kellyanne Conway, to make a completely unethical sales pitch for Ivanka.
Go buy Ivanka s stuff, is what I would tell you, Conway said.
It s a wonderful line.
I own some of it.
I fully I m going to just, I m going to give a free commercial here: Go buy it today, everybody.
You can find it online.
She allegedly received a slap on the wrist, but she denied it, saying that POTUS supports me.
So, both Kmart and Sears, which both carry Trump Home items, have followed the high-end department store s lead and are dropping the Trump name altogether.
As part of the company s initiative to optimize its online product assortment, we constantly refine that assortment to focus on our most profitable items, a Sears Holdings spokesperson told Business Insider.
Amid that streamlining effort, 31 Trump Home items were among the items removed online this week.
Products from the line are still offered online via third-party Marketplace vendors.
While you can still find some items for Trump home and some shoes in Ivanka s line on their third-party part of their website, here s what happens when you search the store part of Kmart s website.And here s Sears:No doubt, Trump will eventually flag them as failing brands, and there s more than a grain of truth to that, but a bigger failing brand is Donald Trump.
Just three weeks in, most Americans think he s doing a horrific job and nearly half think he should be impeached.As of the time this post was written, there was still no response from Trump, but he s busy mortifying the Japanese Prime Minister.
Besides, Trump s most petulant tweets don t typically come till around 3:00 AM.Featured image via Pool/Getty Images.