The Republicans have given us a lot of WTF moments lately, but this one is something you ll remember for a while and just in time for Easter.Earlier today, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) released a video over Twitter announcing what he gave up for Lent, a Christian tradition during Easter season where people give up specific comforts and luxuries for 40 days as a form of repentance.
After you see this, the levels of rage you ll experience will make you wish Ryan had just kept it between himself and the Lord.
Seriously, the smug smile on his face is enough to make you sick:I used to give up food, like beer or ice cream, for #Lent.
But this year, I decided to give up something different.https://t.co/1CBygHRoG1 Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) March 24, 2016So what did Ryan decide to forego for several weeks?
Anxiety.
And impatience.
He s dead serious.
In the video, he said: I used to give up beer, or ice cream, or pop.
But I ve given up so many things over the years, food-wise, that I ve decided to switch my Lenten vows to character deficiencies or problems I ve had.
For Ryan to refer to anxiety as a character deficiency is reprehensible.
It is something that around 40 million American adults suffer from regularly, and can lead to serious physical issues such as ulcers and respiratory problems.Ryan, with his amazing amount of white privilege and insensitivity, referred to the everyday stresses that many Americans face as an actual debilitating disorder.
How nice is it that Ryan can CHOOSE to give up anxiety for 40 days?
People who actually suffer from anxiety don t even have that choice, and would probably give anything to live without anxiety for just ONE day.
What Ryan said has only further stigmatized a real mental health issue.The stigma against mental health is a serious matter in this country.
As discussions about mental health are usually delivered in a punch line or decried in public, it s no surprise that only a quarter of those with mental health issues believe that others understand and are compassionate about their condition.
Because of heavily engrained stereotypes about mental illness, many people will never seek treatment and get the help they need.Maybe if Ryan is looking for more Lent ideas, he could give up shaming people.
At least that s a real character deficiency.
Featured image via Getty Images