Liberals on twitter were outraged when a Republican lawmaker from Alabama told the truth about what s going on with the character assassination attempt on Senate candidate Roy Moore Aren t people innocent until proven guilty?
Please see our report below on the Roy Moore accuser.Perry Hooper, Jr: Roy Moore has been in the public eye and public office for the last 30 some-odd-years.
And now these ladies are just now coming forward with these type of accusations and allegations?
I just think it s typical Democrat gutter politics.A Roy Moore supporter just straight up lied to @chucktodd about the sexual harassment accusations against Trump being found to be "all false" and Todd completely let him get away with itDo better pic.twitter.com/PVJwjGYbVU Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) November 10, 2017OUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE TRUTH ABOUT THE ROY MOORE CHARACTER ASSASSINATION BY THE LEFT: Infowars uncovered a bombshell when they discovered the Facebook page of one of Judge Roy Moore s accusers, Debbie Gibson, who came out in a Washington Post article to accuse him of sexual misconduct that allegedly took place 36 years ago.Debbie Wesson Gibson says that she was 17 in the spring of 1981 when Moore spoke to her Etowah High School civics class about serving as the assistant district attorney.
She says that when he asked her out, she asked her mother what she would say if she wanted to date a 34-year-old man.
Gibson says her mother asked her who the man was, and when Gibson said Roy Moore, her mother said, I d say you were the luckiest girl in the world.
Among locals in Gadsden, a town of about 47,000 back then, Moore had this godlike, almost deity status he was a hometown boy made good, Gibson says, West Point and so forth.
Gibson says that they dated for two to three months, and that he took her to his house, read her poetry and played his guitar.
She says he kissed her once in his bedroom and once by the pool at a local country club.
Looking back, I m glad nothing bad happened, says Gibson, who now lives in Florida.
As a mother of daughters, I realize that our age difference at that time made our dating inappropriate.
Debbie Gibson hates Donald Trump, but that s not all, she s pretty fond of Judge Roy Moore s opponent, Doug Ross for US Senate In Alabama as well Here are a few anti-Trump posts that were found on Gibson s Facebook page: One of senatorial candidate Roy Moore s accusers is apparently a fervent Democrat who has worked for the DNC as a sign language interpreter for Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden, a revelation which the Washington Post never included in its original report.The accuser, Debbie Gibson, had also publically supported Moore s opponent Doug Jones before the accusations came to light.Gibson openly bragged about signing for Hillary during a campaign appearance.
On a side note, we re not sure who she s signing for.
The crowd behind Hillary, that is usually packed with the Democrats hand-picked diverse crowd, appears to be pretty thin.Here s a post from Gibson s page proving that she s supporting Judge Roy Moore s Democrat opponent for US Senate:She even posted a video of Moore s opponent, Doug Jones to promote him to her friends on Facebook.
The screenshot below shows the post on her page.
Interestingly, when attacking Moore ally Steve Bannon for suggesting the Washington Post was politically motivated in its reporting, the newspaper implied that Gibson wasn t down with Democratic propaganda, a statement which seemingly conflicts with Gibson s political activism:That s not what the photos say The Washington Post reported: According to campaign reports, none of the women has donated to or worked for Moore s Democratic opponent, Doug Jones, or his rivals in the Republican primary But notice the precise wording; it s lawyer-speak.
It might very well be true that Gibson didn t donate or work for Doug Jones, but according to her Facebook profile, she did actively campaign for him, which doesn t help her credibility and it should have been reported yet the Washington Post conveniently left it out.