The ammosexual terrorists currently staging an armed occupation in a federal bird sanctuary in Oregon are standing their ground amid reports that Ammon Bundy and three of their compatriots have been arrested.
Monumental imbecile, godawful radio host, and wannabe journalist Pete Santilli s live feed cut out as he stood in front of a hospital near the Malheur Wildlife Refuge to announce that Bundy and others had been arrested, and two had been shot.Santilli says that one of the Faithful received a phone call from the FBI: The word is right now that everyone and this is the message that they wanted to convey, and if anybody s watching this stream at the refuge the FBI has conveyed a message: you are free to go, and you must leave now.
The confirmation is as follows, Santilli said.
It is reported that Ammon Bundy is in custody by police.
The roads are on lockdown reports of shots being fired and the report that we re getting right now is that two people have been shot.
WRGB reports that one of the militants is dead: Officials said it all began with a traffic stop while Bundy and some of his followers were en route to a community meeting in John Day, about 70 miles away.Shots were fired after FBI agents, Oregon State troopers and other law enforcement agencies made the stop.
CNN reports its unclear who fired first.Details of the arrest and confrontation remain unknown, but charges are pending related to the group s 25-day takeover of the wildlife refuge.According to Oregon Live, Ryan Bundy suffered a minor gunshot wound, and Santilli s staff reports that Tarp Man Lavoy Finicum, who once warned that he would take death over jail, was also struck by gunfire.
The name of the deceased has not been officially released.
However, Assemblywoman Michele Fiore says that Finicum is, indeed, dead: If in fact Ammon Bundy has been taken into custody, he added, It s not a good thing.
Certainly not a good thing.
During the stream, Santilli received a phone call and the stream cut out shortly afterward.
According to Oregon Live, aside from Ammon and Ryan Bundy, the following were arrested:Ryan W. Payne, 32, of Anaconda, Mont., Brian Cavalier, 44, of Bunkerville, Nevada, and Shawna J. Cox, 59, of Kanab, Utah.They have all been charged with conspiracy to impede federal officers, a felony.It is unclear if the remaining domestic terrorists will go home, but it seems unlikely.
Many have pledged to fight to the death, with the group begging for clean underwear, tampons, and snacks to survive a long stay at the refuge.
What this means for the occupation remains to be known, but we sincerely hope that Y all Qaeda recognize defeat, give up peacefully, and slink home with their tails between their legs before lives are lost.Watch Santilli report the arrest below:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2b-jYxOSnWY&w=560&h=315]The militants back at base are backing down, calling for all patriots to join them in defending their illegally-occupied land:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1RoeNxjaShk]Militant Jon Ritzheimer posted a video of himself saying goodbye to his children.
FYI.
I came home to AZ to visit my family, he writes.
The feds know I am here and are charging me with Conspiracy to impede a federal officer.
I need an attorney.
My family needs help and I am hoping they grant me bail.
He added that he is in dire need of a lawyer.A friend of LaVoy Finnicum s confirmed that he is, indeed, dead.
The unnamed man put out a call for help, anticipating a raid.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uh8XKRnHs68?rel=0&showinfo=0&w=420&h=315]Featured image via screengrab