The Democrats weren t able to outright win the Senate back from the GOP, but the GOP s majority isn t exactly huge or secure.
And there s still a Senate race in Louisiana that has gone to a runoff, to be held on Dec. 10.
John Kennedy and Foster Campbell are both up for that particular seat, and should it go to Campbell, the Democrat, it would close that margin even more.Think it can t happen because Louisiana is a deep-red state?
They elected a Democratic governor just last year after Republican Governor Bobby Jindal ran them into the ground.
Also, their runoffs, despite deciding who actually wins an election, have pretty low turnout.
If people in the state are unhappy enough with Trump and with the GOP, those people could turn out for the runoff and swing it to Campbell s side easily.Okay, so that s just one seat and Republicans would still control the Senate with a 51-46 margin.
There are two independents Senators Bernie Sanders and Angus King who both tend to vote with the Democrats, so 51-48, with one uncalled race.
Should Campbell win, that s effectively a 51-49 margin.We can math, and so can you, so we all know 49 is less than 51.
To achieve a majority, someone else has to switch sides.
Oddly enough, that isn t exactly impossible, either.
Senator John McCain has already made it clear he s not going to play ball with everything Trump wants to do.
In fact, McCain is more than a little annoyed over Trump s bromance with Vladimir Putin.
To McCain, Putin is a dictatorial tyrant to whom we absolutely should not cozy up:That could mean bucking his own party to the point where he just switches sides.Evidently, Rand Paul and Susan Collins may be ripe for flipping, too, and if even one of them does, along with McCain, then voila!
Democrats effectively control the Senate again!However, it s pretty far-fetched.
Campbell could easily win the Louisiana seat but getting Republican Senators to change sides, and either vote pretty much entirely Democratic or actually become Democrats, is considerably harder in today s partisan environment.
That means hoping and praying the GOP Senators who are all principled right now stay principled enough to thwart their party and Donald Trump if and when it comes to that.In short, don t hold your breath.
But don t give up hope, either.
We didn t think Trump could win, and he did, and there are a lot of Republicans and conservatives who are just as unhappy with that as we are.
Since the next four years started off with the nearly impossible, then hoping for more impossibilities may not be in vain.If you would like to help Campbell win his runoff election and give the Democrats another seat in the Senate, you can donate to his campaign here.
You can also read all about him and what he stands for here.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images