I can only imagine that the stack of resumes on Donald Trump s desk is full of spelling errors, which to the most anti-intellectual administration in recent American history, is certainly not a disqualifier, at least if we judge by the communications coming from the White House over the last three weeks.The horrendous spelling came early.
During the campaign, Trump regularly misspelled words on his tweets.
That hasn t changed.
Shortly before Trump s inauguration, he tweeted about China, and managed to misspell the word unprecedented.
He eventually fixed it, but it took nearly an hour and a half.More recently, though, Trump s education secretary, Betsy DeVos tweeted about W.E.B.
Du Bois, but instead of spelling it the way the Civil Rights Leader and founder of the NAACP did, her tweet, which happened to fall during Black History Month, spelled his name DeBois.The department fairly quickly apologized, but not without misspelling apologies.
Yes, that came from the department in charge of educating our children.In another embarrassing misspelling, this one a bit more tactile than a tweet, Trump s inaugural poster also has a misspelling:President Trump s official inauguration portrait offered by the Library of Congress had a glaring typo on it, social media users pointed out Sunday evening.The print of Trump, which was sold on the Library of Congress s website, includes a quote from the president but misspells too as to.
No dream is too big, no challenge is to great.
Nothing we want for the future is beyond our reach, the quote reads on the poster.Source: The HillThe poster has been taken off the website, but not before some screenshots were taken.Is this a big deal in the overall scheme of things?
Not really, but it does show a frightening trend within the Trump administration: no dedication to detail in a job where every single word matters.
For example, it s been widely reported that Trump doesn t even read the executive orders he s pushing out on nearly a daily basis.
He even signed away much of his power to the neo-nazi Steve Bannon.For the moment, Mr. Bannon remains the president s dominant adviser, despite Mr. Trump s anger that he was not fully briefed on details of the executive order he signed giving his chief strategist a seat on the National Security Council, a greater source of frustration to the president than the fallout from the travel ban.Source: GQIf that sort of sloppiness, from the office of arguably the most powerful man in the world, doesn t terrify you, then nothing will.Featured image via Mario Tama/Getty Images