So much winning!
Were going to be winning so much, you re going to be sick of winning!
-Candidate Donald J. TrumpPresident Donald Trump hailed the opening Thursday of a new coal mine as proof deregulation is helping bring jobs to the industry, even though plans for the mine s opening were made well before Trump s election.Corsa Coal Corp. will supply coal used in making steel and is expected to generate up to 100 full-time jobs.
The company said it decided in August to open the Acosta mine 60 miles south of Pittsburgh after a steel industry boom drove up prices for metallurgical coal.Under a tent perched hundreds of feet above a freshly dug coal pit, about 200 miners, business leaders, and politicians celebrated amid the surge of enthusiasm for the industry.
Mining headgear lay atop red, white, and blue table cloths labeled Make Coal Great Again.
Democratic Gov.
Tom Wolf said the mine was part of an effort to bring back jobs and industry to the state.
Pennsylvania awarded a $3 million grant for the project.
We have not always capitalized on our standing as one of the world s leaders in these resources, but we re changing that, Wolf said.Trump has made reversing the decades-long decline in coal mining the central tenet of his environmental policy, blaming federal regulations aimed at curbing planet-warming carbon emissions for job losses in the industry.
Trump and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt have targeted laws that protected waterways from coal waste and required states to slash carbon emissions from power plants.
About a dozen protesters chanted in opposition to the mine at the opening.Trump noted the impending opening of the mine last week during his speech announcing the nation s withdrawal from the Paris climate accord.
He said then he had hoped to attend the event; he participated via recorded video message, taking partial credit for the opening.
One by one, we re eliminating the regulations that threaten your jobs, and that s one of the big reasons you re opening today: Less regulation, Trump said.
We have withdrawn the United States from the horrendous Paris climate accord, something that would have put our country back decades and decades, we would have never allowed ourselves to be great again.
Trump noted the impending opening of the mine last week during his speech announcing the nation s withdrawal from the Paris climate accord.
He said then he had hoped to attend the event; he participated via recorded video message, taking partial credit for the opening.
One by one, we re eliminating the regulations that threaten your jobs, and that s one of the big reasons you re opening today: Less regulation, Trump said.
We have withdrawn the United States from the horrendous Paris climate accord, something that would have put our country back decades and decades, we would have never allowed ourselves to be great again.
For entire story: Mcall