The Democrats continue to push their delusional wish to impeach President Trump They announced a new effort even today:HAPPENING TODAY: Dems set to launch new impeachment efforts.
pic.twitter.com/J1ssZGgwcy Fox & Friends First (@FoxFriendsFirst) November 15, 2017THE LEADER IN THIS RIDICULOUS EFFORT: Maxine Waters received a lifetime achievement award at Glamour s 2017 Women of the Year awards Tuesday and concluded by calling once again for President Donald Trump s impeachment .The sheeple buy it and chant with Waters Maxine Waters led a crowd in chanting "Impeach 45!"
at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards.
(via Glamour) https://t.co/1C0bfI3OKf Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) November 14, 2017Waters has repeatedly called for Trump to be impeached, and although she has sometimes seemed not to remember that, it has become a signature aspect of her political image.
She made sure to continue her stand at the fashion magazine s event, even though her fellow Democrats have distanced themselves from that idea.
You recognize when a leader is irresponsible.
You recognize when a leader is dishonorable and disrespectful.
You recognize when a leader is dangerous, the California congresswoman said.
Even if that leader is the President of the United States of America.
I continue to say, impeach him!
she said to loud applause.
Impeach him!
Impeach him!
She then led the audience in a chant, using the popular shorthand 45 for Trump, the 45th president.
Impeach 45!
Impeach 45!
I didn t hear you impeach 45!
she yelled, while the crowd continued the refrain.Earlier in her speech, Waters called on the audience to vote, get involved, and organize for progressive causes.
She also advised the group composed largely of fashion designers, journalists, and celebrities to run for public office.
I want you to do everything you can to get ready to run for office, she said.
I m claiming my time, and I want you to claim your time, she added, referring to a comment she made in a hearing that went viral.
Read more: WFB