Unable to spew her lies and excuses on CNN, Kellyanne Conway appeared on Fox News instead on Sunday to defend her Bowling Green massacre remarks and lash out at her critics.During an interview with Chris Matthews on MSNBC last week, Conway referenced an investigation that occurred during the Obama Administration in order to Donald Trump s unconstitutional Muslim ban that he signed over a week ago and caused worldwide chaos ever since.Conway claimed that President Obama banned immigration from Iraq for six months after two Iraqi immigrants were caught plotting a terrorist attack and were arrested in Bowling Green, Kentucky.
I bet it s brand new information to people that President Obama had a 6-month ban on the Iraqi refugee program after two Iraqis came here to this country, were radicalized and they were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green massacre.
It didn t get covered.
Donald Trump used the same claim to defend his ban.However, Politifact pointed out that Trump s claim that his ban is the same is a lie.Trump said, My policy is similar to what President Obama did in 2011 when he banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months.
The Obama administration in 2011 delayed processing Iraqi refugees for six months following evidence of a failed plot by two Iraqi refugees.Trump s executive order temporarily bars travel to the United States for all citizens from seven countries, and it is not in direct response to actions from citizens of those countries.Furthermore, Iraqi refugees were nonetheless admitted to the United States during the 2011 suspension while Trump has put an indefinite ban on Syrian refugees.We rate Trump s claim Mostly False.So Conway just got busted for lying.
And she proceeded to lie more during her interview on Fox.
They re masterminds, I had said that before, Conway said.
I should have said plot or I should have just called them terrorists.
I clarified immediately.
I should have said terrorists and not massacre.
I m sure it will live on for a week.
First of all, switching words would make Conway s statement to Chris Matthews make even less sense.
They were the masterminds behind the Bowling Green terrorists, is how it would read.Second, Conway did not immediately correct her own claim.
She waited 13 hours and by the time she corrected herself, her comments were all over the news.
She literally made up a fake terrorist attack to justify Trump s travel ban.Conway called her critics haters and complained that she only misspoke by one word.
I misspoke one word.
The corrections in the newspapers that are attacking me are three paragraphs long every day.
Seriously.
And Trump supporters think liberals are snowflakes.
Kellyanne Conway s skin is just as thin as Trump s.Featured image via Yana Paskova/Getty Images