Bristol Palin has shown yet again not only how incredibly dense she is, but just how her children could suffer from her ineptitude as a parent and reasonable human being.
Her latest Patheos blog post talks about just how lucky her son is to have grown up around guns because of an asinine gun control experiment out of Texas specifically aimed at gun sales to families.
It s actually quite sickening.In the video, children are left into a room full of toys, among which is hidden an unloaded handgun.
Within 15 seconds a child finds the gun and begins treating it like any of the other toys in the room.
Parents stand horrified as their children, cast into an unsupervised play environment, take the gun and point it at each other.
In the end, a police officer helping conduct this bogus experiment points out that the children playing with the gun come from a home with no guns, where the two children who wouldn t touch the gun come from homes where guns are available and talked about.That s what Bristol Palin decides to jump on.
Finally, someone is calling her a good parent, which is, of course, ludicrous, but she seems to be comfortable with it.
She wrote: Only the children whose homes had exposed them to guns knew not to touch the dangerous toy.
As other children ran around pointing it at each other, two stood back because their parents understood the importance of teaching and appropriate exposure.Parents assume their child will automatically know what is and is not dangerous.
The danger is not guns themselves, but a lack of education.So thankful Tripp is around guns and knows how to act around them.
The danger is not the gun itself but a lack of education?
What a crock of doody.
This is America, Bristol.
The bulk of guns owned by civilians are because of a lack of education.
People believe guns make them safer, that they can thwart crimes and that they are somehow more patriotic for having one.
The reality is far simpler: If there were fewer guns, fewer people would get shot.The entire scenario is designed to portray people who don t own guns as bad parents, because their children have no experience with guns.
The two kinds of parents portrayed get the exact result you may expect, but Palin, as dense as she is, takes the lesson to the stupid place, arguing that only children who have been exposed to guns have a chance of growing up safe in America.The two types of parents not included that would round out this experiment would be the idiots who think kids don t need to learn about gun safety as long as you leave the safety on and parents who refuse to have guns in their home and add the benefit of educating their children why they are so dangerous.
Those parents aren t needed to prove to someone as ill-prepared for parenthood as Bristol Palin that there may be more to this experiment.
The notion that raising your children around guns makes them safer would be much more believable if we didn t have to read about yet another toddler killing his sister or a little guy pulling a gun from the glove compartment and shooting Grandpa.
If there were no two-year-olds pulling pistols from their mothers purse and shooting them in Walmart it may be easier to swallow.What may be a better gauge of how safe non-gun homes are as opposed to homes with guns would be to count the accidental firearm deaths from each.
I can guarantee you that my children will never grab a loaded weapon from anywhere in my house and pull the trigger.
I can also guarantee that they have seen and been taught exactly how dangerous guns are and wouldn t touch one for any reason in somebody else s home, either.It s all well and good to use these parents who probably haven t considered that their kids may run into guns at their friends houses as bad examples, but in the end, they go home to a house with no guns; to playrooms where no guns will be hidden.
Those responsible children?
They may not have touched the gun but they are the only ones with true access.
To think that is in any way good parenting is mind boggling.Here s the full seven-minute experiment:KWWL Eastern Iowa Breaking News, Weather, ClosingsFeatured image from Gage Skidmore