Libertarians are convinced that their presidential ticket should be getting security briefings too, just like the Democrats and the Republicans.
Why?
Because they seem to think there is some possible scenario where they could come out on top in November.Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton began receiving security briefings shortly after they officially became the nominees for their respective parties.
Apparently, poor Gary Johnson is feeling left out.Even though it is uncommon for third party candidates to get these kinds of briefings, it wouldn t be a first.
The last third party candidate to receive security briefings was John Anderson, an Independent, in 1980.
And now, the Libertarian Party thinks that Johnson and his running mate, former Massachusetts Gov.
Bill Weld, should be eligible to receive security briefings, too.Libertarian National Chairman Nicholas Sarwark wrote a letter to the General Service Administration (GSA) on Thursday, arguing that the Libertarian candidates should be getting national security briefings since they are on the ballot in all 50 states.
Even the federal government is in the business of attempting to pre-select voters choices for President and Vice-President.
Three tickets will be on the ballot in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, but only two are receiving taxpayer-funded national security briefings.
That is just wrong, and we urge the GSA to provide the same information to Governor Johnson that is being given to Mr. Trump and Sec.
Clinton.
The Presidential Transition Act of 1963 makes it so that all presidential candidates are able to receive security briefings, including third party candidates.
However, the law also says that the candidates must have a significant level of public support in national polls and need to be realistically thought to have a chance at winning the presidency.Even though Johnson s name will be on the ballot in all 50 states, he s only polling at 8.3 percent.
Which is not enough public support to get him onto the debate stage, let alone the White House.
So I m not sure how realistic the possibility of a Johnson presidency actually is.On the other hand, perhaps a national security briefing or two would be good for Johnson.
Maybe they could tell him what the heck Aleppo is.Featured image via George Frey/Getty Images