We ve been following this push to remove all statues related to the Civil War.
It was basically ramrodded through by the Mayor and other pc idiots.
This is our history and is honoring those who fought in the Civil War.
Is anyone else sick about this?
If you ve ever been to New Orleans you would remember the beautiful statues sprinkled around the city.
It s part of the charm and the rich history of New Orleans.
This is wrong, wrong, wrong!
THANK YOU TO THE HAYRIDE FOR ALL THE TRUTH IN THIS THAT SHOWS WHAT A SHAM IT IS:The New Orleans City Council voted 6-1 today to remove four historical monuments in the city: Robert E Lee Circle, PGT Beauregard s City Park statue, the Jefferson Davis monument and the Liberty Place monument.Mayor Mitch Landrieu first requested the proposal back in June after the AME Charleson Church shooting.
At the time, Landrieu said he wanted to hold a 60-day discussion period so that residents could converse about the four monuments on the chopping block.Though, the Hayride exclusively reported how the Landrieu administration knew that they had the votes to remove all four monuments before even proposing the idea.
Also, the Mayor s administration apparently has been looking into warehouse spaces and construction companies to remove the monuments since August, even though the 60-day discussion period was not over.Councilman Jared Brossett compared the monuments to the Berlin wall, while Councilwoman Susan Guidry said she and others were justifiably offended by the monuments.Councilwoman Latoya Cantrell and Councilwoman Stacy Head, however, felt differently.
Cantrell said she felt disrespected by Landrieu for proposing the idea with no input from residents or the City Council.Councilman Jason Williams, though, said that other council-members should not be too upset with the Landrieu administration for bringing up the issue.Cantrell also took a major issue with the fact that Landrieu suddenly got an anonymous donor to pay for the removal of the monuments.
Cantrell said she and the residents of New Orleans deserved to know who was behind removal of the monuments.The Hayride exclusively reported months ago that the anonymous donor was Democrat-funder John Cummings, however Cummings denied being the anonymous donor.Head, the only no vote on the monuments issue, said removing the monuments will do nothing for the city, saying that she asked for a compromise, but that compromise was not given any chance.
Last month, Head confirmed exclusive Hayride reports which found that the Landrieu administration had been looking into construction companies and warehouse spaces for months now.Cantrell also confirmed last week that she was actually against removal of monuments because she felt as though the Landrieu administration had rammed the process through the city, taking no input from historians or residents.Read more: The Hayride