Donald Trump s signature issue since he began his travesty of a presidential campaign has been immigration.
He won the primary by promising a bunch of ignorant, anti-immigrant, racist, and otherwise bigoted voters in the GOP base that he d deport all the brown people and build a giant wall to keep more of them from coming in.
Well, that was the primary, and this is general election.
He and his campaign staff seem to have realized that they can t win with just a bunch of racists, so they are attempting to moderate that hardline message, but they have to be careful, because the base still has to be fed that red meat that got them onto Team Trump in the first place.The result of this attempted balancing act has been a muddying of the water amongst Trump s campaign staff and surrogates as they chase their tails all over television with no clear message regarding what will happen to all of the undocumented immigrants who are already here and contributing to American society.
In fact, on Sunday s edition of MSNBC s Meet the Press, this was a topic of conversation, and one panel member pretty much summed up the issue here: Trump himself doesn t know what the hell his own plan is on his signature issue.
I don t know if Donald Trump knows what he is going to do with them [illegal immigrants] @TheFix on #MTP Panel Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) September 4, 2016Moderator Chuck Todd also interviewed Trump s running mate Mike Pence, and his answers weren t anymore satisfying.
Pence only returned to the false narrative that Trump s positions on this issue are consistent.
Pence on #MTP: "I think Donald Trump has been completely consistent" on deportation policy.https://t.co/Q3m39LDyQy Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) September 4, 2016Well, since the American people deserve to know where a major party presidential candidate stands on such an important issue this far along in the election season, Hillary s campaign manager Robby Mook decided to help us all out.
He released a statement via the Hillary For America website that reads: Donald Trump has stated very clearly throughout his campaign that he will deport everyone who is undocumented, something that was reinforced in his speech in Arizona last Wednesday.
Beyond forcibly removing every single undocumented person from this country, Trump has also promised to rescind DACA and DAPA, and deport American citizens who are born to undocumented immigrant parents.
What we saw today is Mike Pence and Trump s top campaign officials attempt to mislead voters about their mass deportation policy by using soft words to describe harsh tactics one of the oldest tricks in the book.
Immigrant families know the meanings of humane and fair and can see straight through their cynical ploys.
Trump s message to immigrant families is clear: everyone must go.
This, of course, is the bottom line: the Trump campaign wishes to muddy the waters, to make us all think he doesn t plan on erecting a deportation force to make all the brown people leave, so that we ll think he actually has some compassion for these people.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
It doesn t matter to Trump if you re a 70-year-old woman who fled her home country 40 years ago to escape war or violence, if it was either enter the country illegally or face certain death Trump will deport you, and take you away from your documented children and grandchildren.That s the kind of cold, cruel, callous approach that Donald Trump and his racist cronies have when it comes to this very complex and sensitive issue, make no mistake.
They re just using different words now, but they mean exactly what has been said for the last 14 months immigrants are the enemy, and they will be thrown out.Thankfully, though, Hillary and her team have read the message loud and clear, and are making sure the American people understand just what that very scary message is.Featured image via Instagram