The Women s March on Washington crowd blew Trump s inauguration audience out of the water on Saturday, but actress Ashley Judd delivered the kick to the balls Trump deserves.After months of being insulted on the campaign trail, hundreds of thousands of women rose up and traveled to our nation s capital to protest their attacker becoming the new president.Trump repeatedly attacked women by insulting their looks and even got caught admitting that he gropes women without their consent.
Multiple women have come forward with their own stories of Trump sexually assaulting them and being a creep in general.After the Republican National Convention in July, Judd shared her own experiences of being ogled by Trump.
I ve known Donald for 15, 17 years?
Judd told Jezebel.
I m friends with someone who married into the family.
Anyway, I would bump into him at the U.S. Open, for example, and I think I can say the amount of time he has spent looking at my chest rather than my face is proportional to his insanity and functionality.
If I may, this is what it s like to talk to Donald Trump, she continued.
He s a chest gazer, a breast gazer, let s be more specific and, referring to the person who at that time was married into the family, he just sexualized her.
Doesn t she look great?
Doesn t she look ?
He s just revolting.
And Judd continued blasting Trump by reading a poem written by 19-year-old Nina Donovan in response to Trump remarks about grabbing women by the p*ssy.
I am a nasty woman.
Not as nasty as a man who looks like he bathes in Cheeto dust, a man whose words are a dis to America, Electoral College-sanctioned hate speech contaminating this national anthem.
I m not as nasty as Confederate flags being tattooed across my city.
The poem continued by slamming racism and the new slavery of the prison system before nailing Trump for pandering to neo-Nazis.
I feel Hitler in these streets, Nazis renamed I am not as nasty as racism, fraud, conflict of interest, homophobia, sexual assault, transphobia, white supremacy, misogyny, ignorance, white privilege.
The poem then referenced Trump s creepy obsession with his daughter Ivanka.
I m not as nasty as your daughter being your favorite sex symbol, like your wet dreams infused with your own genes.
Judd then concluded the poem.
Our p*ssies ain t for grabbing.
This p*ssy is for my pleasure and giving birth to more nasty women.
Here s the video via YouTube:If Donald Trump was listening, he must be throwing a hissy fit right now.Featured image screenshot