Not long after news broke that four black teens tortured a white disabled man in Chicago, racist conservatives immediately blamed President Obama.Police have identified and arrested the attackers and are investigating the incident as a hate crime, but that s not enough for racists.Led by Laura Ingraham, who delivered a Nazi salute during the Republican National Convention in July, the racists demanded an apology from President Obama and directly blamed him for the violence.Will @POTUS denounce the beating of a white disabled man by black youth while they screamed f Trump & f white ppl ?
Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) January 5, 2017Her tweet and the responses that followed are deplorable.
@IngrahamAngle @POTUS No, this is what he wanted.
He followed the saul alinsky playbook of how to divided a nation & cause chaos.
Dolphins 10-6 (@PhinsDiehard) January 5, 2017Saul Alinsky was a peaceful community organizer who led protests.
And when he died in 1972 he had been planning to organize the white middle class to fight for social change because he fear a right-wing demagogue like Donald Trump would make them ripe for the plucking by some guy on horseback promising a return to the vanished verities of yesterday.
@IngrahamAngle @POTUS Considering Obama started the #BlackLivesMatter movement I m thinking no.
We never had this problem beforehand.
#MAGA Karen!
(@KarenMKunkle) January 5, 2017President Obama did not start the Black Lives Matter movement.
Alicia Garza, Patrisse Cullors, and Opal Tometi founded the social movement via Twitter and calls to actions in response to white officers killing unarmed black men.
@KarenMKunkle @IngrahamAngle @POTUS Disgusting!
Why can t Trump sworn in right NOW?
He would put this nonsense to an end!!!
Bradin B. Winterward (@BradinW) January 5, 2017Not even Trump can magically put an end to violence, especially since many of his supporters have been committing hate crimes across the country.
But you don t hear conservatives condemning them.
@IngrahamAngle @POTUS Obama never denounced the killing of police officers certainly he s not going to start now and denounce hate crime Trumpocrats (@Trumpocrats) January 5, 2017Yes, President Obama did, in fact, condemn the killing of police officers.
He did it when police officers were killed in Baton Rouge and he did it when police officers were killed in Dallas.But racist conservatives don t care about facts.
They only care about spreading their hate and bigotry.
And their hate only got more extreme.
@IngrahamAngle @POTUS pic.twitter.com/39ukeAQ7AL KALMAN (@snutailgater) January 5, 2017@donderover @IngrahamAngle @POTUS when the gitmo people attack again l hope someone he knows and loves is in their path.
maria dina (@mariedinao) January 5, 2017And even after President Obama condemns this act of violence, it STILL won t satisfy these racists.
They ll just find another way to attack him and blame him.Featured image via screenshot