Bill Maher had nearly a week to plan how he wanted to lampoon loser Donald Trump s debate performance against Hillary Clinton and he did not disappoint.During his show on Friday night, the Real Time host opened the show still in disbelief that this is actually happening.
But he quickly got over it and moved on to mocking Trump s sore-loser hissy fit that he has displayed ever since the debate ended.
He interrupted her 51 times, Maher said about the debate.
At one point she had to say , Mommy s talking.
He actually had a meltdown.
Donald Trump had a meltdown about what a great temperament he has.
It was like watching someone carve I am not a psycho into their arm!
Maher continued by pointing out that the scientifically conducted polls show that Hillary won the debate, but Trump claims he won and has used every excuse in the book ever since to explain his poor showing.
Even though all the polls showed that Hillary won the debate, oh, he won.
Maher continued.
And even if he didn t win, totally not his fault.
The moderator asked the wrong questions.
He had a bad microphone.
The whole system is rigged.
She had the questions beforehand.
The sun was in my eyes.
The coke wore off.
Even Ryan Lochte was like Stop with the bullshit about being robbed.
You whiny little b*tch.
Maher then turned to talking about the theory that Trump had used cocaine prior to the debate, pointing out that he was manic during the first 30 minutes before crashing and becoming very thirsty while sniffling throughout the night.
Hillary got a big bump after the debate and Trump looked like he did a big bump before the debate.
That s what I m hearing.
I hope it s not true.
A lot of people are saying it.
He was stiffing a lot.
It was either that or he s allergic to facts Ironically, the guy who wants to build a wall hit a wall.
Maher also slammed Trump s attacks on former Miss Universe Alicia Machado, quipping that America doesn t need a president answering the 3am phone call who is already in an enraged hissy fit.
Maher then sarcastically thanked the Republican Party for this mess they created and told them they must be so fucking proud.
Your candidate finally takes a concrete position on something and it s no fat chicks.
Here s the video via YouTube:Donald Trump is an embarrassment, but what s truly embarrassing is that he isn t losing by a landslide.
Anyone who still supports Trump should be ashamed of themselves.Featured image via creenshot