Donald Trump s head is going to explode when he sees this.Back in September as the 2016 campaign raged on, Trump claimed that undocumented immigrants cost the United States hundreds of billions of dollars and complained that only 5 percent to 10 percent of them pay taxes.
Illegal immigration, each year, costs us between $200 billion and $300 billion, Trump told CNN host Erin Burnett.
I don t know if anybody gives you those numbers.
Probably not.
There s very little, percentage-wise, Trump said on the number of immigrants who pay taxes.
There s very little, probably 5 percent, 10 percent.
Wrong.As it turns out, Trump claimed in August that the figure was around $113 billion.
But Politifact rated his claim false after doing some research.
Trump s information comes from an unreliable conservative think tank that fiercely opposes immigration.
Reports from other organizations, even conservative ones, put the figure drastically lower.It also turns out that around more than half of the undocumented immigrants in this country pay more taxes than Donald Trump does.
After all, just a single year of Trump s tax returns showed that he probably didn t pay a dime in federal income taxes for over a decade.
Undocumented immigrants on the other hand, have contributed $12 billion to Social Security alone as well as other federal, local and state taxes, while not being able to receive any federal, state, or local benefits.That may be a huge reason why Trump refuses to release his tax returns.
Because he knows that they would expose him as the hypocrite, liar, and tax cheat that he is.Now one undocumented immigrant is bravely daring Trump to release his taxes after she proved his claims wrong with a single photograph.Belen Sisa is a resident of Arizona who was brought to America by her undocumented immigrant parents when she was six years old.
Sisa decided to send a message to Donald Trump and all of those anti-immigrant conservatives who believe the myths about undocumented immigrants that right-wing groups constantly spew.So she posted a picture of herself proudly holding up her tax returns on Facebook and included the following message:I, an undocumented immigrant, just filed my taxes and PAID $300 to the state of Arizona.
I cannot receive financial aid from the state or federal government for school, I cannot benefit from unemployment, a reduced healthcare plan, or a retirement fund.
I think I m a pretty good citizen.
Oh and there are MILLIONS just like me who pay into a system they will never receive anything from.
Wanna tell me again how I should be deported, contribute nothing and only leech off this country while the 1% wealthiest people in this country steal from you everyday?
How about you show me yours Donald J. Trump?
#HereToStay Your move, Donald.Featured Image: Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images