Activist judges are killing America!
The judge in Hawaii who just blocked President Trump s executive order is wrong on his decision but who cares about the law when you re an activist Derrick Kahala Watson graduated from Harvard WITH OBAMA and is an Obama-appointed judge.
WHAT S EVEN CRAZIER IS THAT OBAMA WAS JUST SPOTTED IN HAWAIIThe local news had a short comment on Obama s surprise visit:Coming off a string of high-profile meetings, former President Barack Obama made an unannounced return to Hawaii Monday.Just three months removed from his last official holiday visit as president, Obama was spotted dining at Buzz s Lanikai Monday night.President Trump vows that he ll fight a Hawaii judge who blocked his latest travel ban saying he will take it to the Supreme Court pic.twitter.com/by3N86M37g FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) March 16, 2017The court disturbingly ruled that these two provisions pausing refugees and foreign national entry from 6 nations target Muslims and violate the Establishment Clause.The court created a constitutional crisis where none existed.
The court s Establishment Clause analysis is fundamentally flawed and ignores the separation of powers.
Worst of all, it puts our national security at risk.As the Supreme Court has rightly held, the United States Constitution is not a suicide pact.
As I explained earlier this week when we filed our amicus brief with the court in this case, the order in no way violates the Establishment Clause:First, the Executive Order (EO) does not even address religion, whatsoever.
Second, the order has a secular purpose: our national security.
As we explained: The EO, on its face, serves secular purposes, and no amount of rehashing of miscellaneous campaign trail commentary can change that.
.
.
.
[T]he mere suggestion of a possible religious or anti-religious motive, mined from past comments of a political candidate or his supporters, and intermixed with various secular purposes, is not enough to doom government action (along with all subsequent attempts to address the same subject matter).
[A]ll that Lemon requires is that government action have a secular purpose, not that its purpose be exclusively secular, and a policy is invalid under this test only if it was motivated wholly by religious considerations.
Lynch v. Donnelly, 465 U.S. 668, 680-81 & n.6 (1984) (emphasis added).
The order singles out no religion for favor or disfavor.
To conclude otherwise is unreasonable, and absurd.
The six countries whose nationals are impacted by the pause were countries identified by President Obama and Congress as countries of particular concern.
Policy disagreements, hurt feelings, and political agendas are not enough to support an Establishment Clause claim.
The court s flawed order will invariably be appealed, and we will be ready to file crucial amicus briefs once again in federal appeals court.Read more: aclj