After all of the conspiracy theories and lies Sean Hannity has peddled over the years, he definitely does NOT deserve an award.But the right-wing Media Research Center is rewarding Donald Trump s top propagandist with a William F. Buckley Jr. Award for Media Excellence anyway, and a New York Times columnist is having none of it.Bret Stephens is a conservative columnist for the Times, and he thoroughly ripped Hannity in a recent column pointing out exactly why he is unworthy of the award.
If we have reached the point where rank-and-file conservatives see nothing amiss with giving Hannity an award named for Buckley, then surely there s a Milton Friedman Prize awaiting Steve Bannon for his insights on free trade, Stephens wrote.
And maybe Sean Spicer can receive the Vaclav Havel International Prize for Creative Dissent for his role in exposing fake news.
The floor s the limit.
Or, in Hannity s case, the crawl space beneath it.
Stephens went on to point out that Buckley once expressed his disgust about Donald Trump, calling him a demagogue and a narcissist.
He warned Americans to not fall into Trump s trap.
But conservatives fell for it hook, line, and sinker.
Hannity fell even harder for it, going so far as to lob softball questions at him and then defend him on a daily basis.
Hannity even committed hypocrisy by defending Trump for doing all of the things he complained about President Obama doing.
When Hannity peddles conspiracy theories about Seth Rich, the young Democratic National Committee staffer murdered in Washington last year, that s an echo of John Birch, Stephens continued.
And so we reach the Idiot stage of the conservative cycle, in which a Buckley Award for Sean Hannity suggests nothing ironic, much less Orwellian, to those bestowing it, applauding it, or even shrugging it off.
The award itself is trivial, but it s a fresh reminder of who now holds the commanding heights of conservative life, and what it is that they think.
Well, that set Hannity off on a Twitter rage in which he whined and bragged about himself just like Trump does.For the first time in my life I partly agree with @BretStephensNYT I do not deserve the WFB award.
I also never deserved the 2 Marconis .. Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017Nor do I deserve the Radio Hall of Fame, Free speech awards from Talkers or the R&R tall host of the year awards I have won.
Nor do I care Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017To my audience that has given me the honor of 30 years on radio 22 years on Fox, I thank you.
You mattter, Faith, family Country matter Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017As long as you honor me with these opportunities I will continue to fight hard for the things I truly believe in.
Not what WFB, Media, NYT s Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017Believes in.
I m not Buckley, Rush, Mark, or anybody else.
I m myself.
I will fight for limited Govt, lower taxes, less regulation, Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017Energy independence, school choice, balanced budgets, secure borders, defeating Isis and radical Islam.
And will battle a corrupt media.
Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017I will also fight for the forgotten men and woman in America left behind, in poverty, on food stamps, and out of work.
That matters to me.
Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017So @BretStephensNYT I ll say to you and the @nytimes (Fake News) I do not care what u think.
God bless America.
Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017Can ANYONE think of just ONE memorable thing @BretStephensNYT has written?
WFB was on my show numerous times, would WFB trust the @nytimes ?
https://t.co/r0NnuDidUZ Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) July 7, 2017Except that Sean Hannity is the face of corrupt media.
He spends so much time kissing Trump s ass that he might as well give him a blow job while he is down on his knees.22 years on Fox News is 22 years too many.
He should never have been hired and he certainly should be fired now, especially after pushing the Seth Rich conspiracy theory in defense of Trump for as long as he did.William F. Buckley was an intellectual conservative.
He was a graduate of Yale and he served this country as a United States Army officer.
Hannity, on the other hand, is the complete opposite.
There is nothing intellectual about Hannity.
He s a college dropout who pretends to be a tough guy.
He has made his money duping conservatives into believing his propaganda bullshit, which he peddles while offering little or zero evidence of his claims.Not only should Hannity by booted off the air, he should not receive a media award.
A fake media award would be more appropriate.Featured Image: Rob Kim/Getty Images