It s no secret that our frenemies on the Right are stupid.
After all, conservatism, racism (one of the core GOP values ), and low IQ go together like rama lamma lamma ka dinga da dinga dong, according to science.
But, you know, with a lot less dancing and a bit more drooling.In Iowa, voters had some important questions about the GOP candidates including why is Donald Trump so orange, a question science nor philosophy is likely to answer for decades yet to come.
There is widespread opinion that he either uses tanning beds or a full-body spray to get his bright tangerine finish, a user on question and answer platform Quora postulated, though Trump is more likely to be found banging his daughter than in a tanning bed.Some wondered if Ted Cruz is from Canada, a query likely stemming from Trump and his fellow Cruz birthers inane suggestions that Cruz is not eligible to be President.But the dumbest questions were related to Jeb Bush, according to Google.
The Washington Post reports:Iowans wondered: Is Jeb Bush related to George W. Bush?
Who are Jeb Bush s parents?
Who is Jeb Bush s father?
and Is Jeb Bush George Bush s brother?
While no data is available concerning demographics of the folks who asked Almighty Google those ridiculous questions, they likely stem from Republicans inability to know anything important about candidates they support past their willingness to build multi-billion-dollar walls to keep brown people out of the country, close mosques, and fight tooth-and-nail against women s rights.In any case, that people don t know Jeb and George Bush are related is nothing short of baffling.
Liberals certainly know, as we remember his role in stealing the 2000 election for his brother.
This, of course, is something no one would have learned on Fox News.
To someone whose primary concern was ensuring that a future war criminal would become President, Jeb Bush was just some guy at the time.Of course, the fact that any Americans don t know even the basics about Jebra is probably an indicator that he should join pedophile-worshipping Mike Huckabee and baby parts affiche natto Carly Fiorina in dropping out of the presidential race.Featured image via Political Garbage Chute/YouTube