First Lady Michelle Obama, along with an impressive group of successful, fierce women including Meryl Streep, Oprah Winfrey, Kerry Washington, Laverne Cox, and Valerie Jarret have launched a new summit, The United State of Women.
Their goal is as follows:There s a lot that s been done by and for women and girls, but there s still plenty to do.
Convened by the White House, this Summit will rally all of us together to celebrate what we ve achieved, and how we re going to take action moving forward.
Covering key gender equality issues, we ll make a powerful difference in our collective future.The United State of Women will be an important moment for both women and girls, domestically and internationally.
It will feature speakers who will both educate as well as inspire all of us to take action on June 14th and well afterThose issues include economic empowerment, health and wellness, educational opportunity, violence against women, entrepreneurship and leadership.
All are areas where women are still underrepresented, even though women make up the majority of Americans.And, highlighting an important mission in Mrs. Obama s life, seminars will be held on healthy lifestyle living, from national standards to education on HIV/AIDS, to self defense and sex education.
Taking part in the effort for women s reproductive health is Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood.But what makes this summit truly unique is that it truly represents all women white, black, Asian, Hispanic, Latino, and Native American, LGBT, older, younger the possibilities for women have no barriers.
This important summit, through seminars, workshops and diverse panels, will also teach women how to use their education and talents to achieve anything they want, from STEM instruction to domestic tasks to elected office.Language barriers?
No problem.
Cultural differences?
They welcome it.
Different religions?
The more the merrier.
If you are a woman who seeks empowerment and change not just in America but the world, to have your voice heard, there is a spot for you at the table.Before women sign up to be a part of the movement, they ask you to sign a pledge, which states:Today, we ll change tomorrow.Starting on June 14, Mrs. Obama s summit will set a benchmark on celebrating what women have to offer this great country, and what a time for it to start Hillary Clinton has just made history by clinching the Democratic nomination for President of the United States, the first woman to do so for a major political party.Michelle Obama and the multitudes of talented, courageous, strong women have taken it upon themselves to step up to the challenge and lead the world bye example.This country will become a better place because of their efforts.
Hopefully 2016 can be the new Year of the Woman.Watch the powerful message below: Featured image via screen capture