Elizabeth Warren wants a say in who Hillary Clinton hires to be part of her administration s transition team.
In fact, Warren made a list of names she absolutely will not accept and Clinton seems to be receptive.According to Politico, Warren has vowed to fight any political appointments or nominees with ties to big banks.
She also wants to shut down the government-to-corporate revolving door.The liberal wing s early jockeying is already paying off.
POLITICO reported this week that Rohit Chopra, who was hired by Warren at the CFPB, is joining Clinton s transition team.
And Heather Boushey, popular among progressives because of her focus on income inequality, was recently chosen as the team s chief economist.
Liberals applauded both hires as a sign Clinton is taking them seriously.What is more, the Democratic Party platform embraced the senator s position that only officials who are not beholden to the industries they regulate should get appointments.One of the biggest complaints about Hillary Clinton is exactly the same complaint many had about her husband as president: she s a political being and yes, she does sometimes base her actions on the polls.
The cynical call this type of politicking pandering, but there are many who call it democratic.
Or, to put it another way, after more than 30 years of the country taking a big swing to the right, we re seeing the pendulum swing back to the left.
Clinton has read the writing on the wall thanks to Warren, and well, she can t afford to be center-right.Warren and other progressives are holding Clinton to her more populist promises through the think tank, the Roosevelt Institute, whose mission is to fight income inequality and corporate control.
Felicia Wong, who heads the Roosevelt Institute, is in pretty much constant contact with Clinton s team.The goal, (Progressive Change Campaign Committee co-founder Adam) Green said, is to have more people associated with Warren and Stiglitz represented in positions throughout the government, and not just Robert Rubin clones.
Rubin, who once co-chaired Goldman Sachs and was a top executive at Citigroup, was a Treasury secretary under Bill Clinton, where he pushed for market deregulation and deficit reduction.If Clinton wins, her administration will likely be hounded by progressive watch dogs, and that s exactly what she needs.
Progressives are a large voting bloc, and if we let ourselves, we can also become a powerful one, even with a nominee who s not Bernie Sanders.Featured image via Jessica Kourkounis/Getty Images.