If you re a guy who thinks sending unwelcome d*ck pics to women is cool, you better hope you ve never sent one to this model.Emily Sears is a model from Australia who often shares pictures of herself on social media, and because of her job, men often send her pictures of their junk even though she really would rather they didn t. I usually receive at least one or two d*ck pics per day, at minimum, Sears told BuzzFeed.
It s just been consistently happening for so long.
I became absolutely fed up with these kinds of disturbing and disgusting messages and comments online.
Rather than allow gross men to continue sending her unsolicited pictures of their penises, Emily decided to fight back in the best way possible.Emily noticed that whenever these men sent d*ck pics to her, they did so using their social media profiles.
So she looked at the profiles to see if these men had girlfriends, wives, or mothers who she could inform about the pictures.She then sends a message to the guys complete with images of the women in their lives and asks what they would think if she alerted them to the unsolicited photos.
We send the photos as a reminder for them to have respect for women.
I think it provides an accountability that people seem to lose online; being behind a screen gives people a false sense of anonymity.
I have noticed since posting my responses as a warning that the number has been significantly lower.
I think my followers are slowly getting the message.
After realizing that Emily figuratively had them by the balls, the men would claim that they were sorry and said they wouldn t do it again.Here s a couple of samples of messages between Emily and the men who harassed her.And sometimes, she went ahead and informed the women in their lives anyway, since most of the creepy guys are just sorry they got busted.
Their apologies always seem fake, Emily said.
Sometimes they try and say their friend stole their phone, and that it wasn t them.
I don t believe they re sorry so much as they re sorry you re putting them on blast.
And because they are fighting back and holding men accountable for their actions, more harassment usually follows.
But Emily has no plans to stop outing men who send her unwelcome pictures of their d*cks.
I get messages from men who say we re sluts who are asking for it , which can get pretty overwhelming.
But I truly believe its a huge social problem reflecting the attitude many men have towards women and I want to keep trying to fight against it.
Frankly, these men deserve what they get.
Men need to understand that there are consequences and just because you re using the Internet, it doesn t mean you are anonymous.
Apparently, men need to be taught these facts.
And they definitely need to learn that sending dick pics to women is not okay.As long as there are women like Emily Sears around, that lesson will continue to be taught.In other words, keep it your pants, gentlemen.Featured Image: Instagram