When Republicans celebrated Donald Trump s undeserved election victory, they probably never imagined he d damage the party as badly as he already has in just nine weeks.This week, Trump once again embarrassed the GOP by messing up their first attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare.
Not only did Trump fail to sell the disastrous American Health Care Act, but he pulled the bill on Friday.
Understandably, Republicans are pissed that Trump conducted things this way, and are distancing themselves from him more than ever.
In fact, they re blaming him and saying that he and the White House had been an obstacle from the start, setting them up for failure.
One House Republican (who wanted to remain anonymous) said: Their heart was not in the healthcare battle.
Think about the level of intensity on the executive orders for the travel ban, or on the wiretapping claims.
He certainly checked the boxes on healthcare, to his credit.
But it s self-evident there was not a certain level of intensity devoted to this.
Trump and his minions have countered this claim, with Press Secretary Sean Spicer issuing a statement on Saturday: The president and vice president left everything on the field They were making calls and having members to the White House all week.
In total, we spoke or met with over 120 members of Congress.
And yet, this doesn t seem to add up, considering that Trump s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner were nowhere to be found as sh*t was hitting the fan on Friday.
Kushner, who is one of Trump s key advisors, was actually skiing with Ivanka in Aspen as House Republicans tried to pass their horrible health care bill and failed.
And it s not just Kushner they re pissed at it s Trump himself.According to House staffers and other GOPers, Trump didn t seem focused when in meetings concerning the Obamacare repeal.
Another unnamed Republican said: Halfway through that meeting, he stopped to talk about Gorsuch.
His mind was bouncing around.
I never felt they were dialed into this.
Maybe next time the GOP will think twice about letting a five-year-old become their party s nominee.
What we re witnessing here is the breakdown of the Republican Party, and it s so humiliating that we almost feel bad for them.
Almost.Featured image is a screenshot