One of Donald Trump s most controversial campaign promises was his total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.
Now that the power of the presidency is his, Trump tried to do just that last weekend.
However, the executive order that enacted the Muslim ban was poorly rolled out, bypassed scrutiny by the agencies charged with enforcing it, and caused protests to erupt nationally and internationally.
Further, everyone saw it for what it was: the unconstitutional religious test for entering the United States that Trump had promised on the campaign trail.After a slew of judges struck down parts of the ban, one federal judge, appointed by President George W. Bush, James Robart of Seattle, struck the whole discriminatory policy down.
Of course, this didn t sit well with Trump, and he did as he always done with confronted with any sort of criticism or challenge whatsoever, and went on an absolutely crazy Twitter tirade against Judge Robart early Saturday morning.
Here are Trump s latest nutty tweets:When a country is no longer able to say who can, and who cannot , come in & out, especially for reasons of safety &.security big trouble!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017Interesting that certain Middle-Eastern countries agree with the ban.
They know if certain people are allowed in it's death & destruction!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017Of course, Trump s claims that other countries agree with his ban are patently false.
There are protests around the world regarding his bigoted and un-American policies and rhetoric.
He has only been in office for two weeks, and has already diminished America s standing in the world greatly by trying to whitewash America and shut out immigrants.Though entirely predictable, Trump s reaction here is highly problematic.
He is clearly unraveling at the protests and criticisms against him, and having actual judges rule against him is just too much.
What will be really interesting to see is whether or not Trump tries to see how he can remove this judge, just as he did with the Acting Attorney General who said that his Muslim ban was indefensible in court.This man is a literal fascist, America, and we are witnessing his slow destruction of our democracy as we speak.
#RESIST.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images