Now this is sweet KARMA!
If you ve ever watched Joy Reid interview Maxine Waters on MSNBC then you know the bitterness and hatefulness runs deep with both of them.
Well, as it turns out, Reid has a nasty past of bashing people by accusing them of being gay while married.
Reid relentlessly was homophobic and downright nasty to former Florida governor Charlie Crist:MSNBC host Joy Reid apologized amid social media outrage over homophobic blog posts she wrote between 2007 and 2009.In the articles unearthed by left-leaning Paste magazine, Reid mocked former Florida governor Charlie Crist as Miss Charlie 17 times when she was an editor at black-centric website the Grio.1/x From 2007 to 2009 @joyannreid authored a dozen homophobic posts not only attempting to out Charlie Crist as gay, she attacked & mocked him for being so.She repeatedly referred to him as "Miss Charlie" and tagged posts about him under "gay politicians."
(thread) pic.twitter.com/tRYvJ3lTc8 James M (@Jamie_Maz) November 30, 2017Reid thought it was hilarious to ridicule a man by suggesting he s a homosexual and then trying to out him publicly, as seen in tweets posted by Twitter user @Jamie_Maz.6/x Joy writes a post on Crist under the tag "not gay politicians" and shares her awful opinions on gay men who get married.
pic.twitter.com/ZX2sOGDvL6 James M (@Jamie_Maz) November 30, 2017 Miss Charlie, Miss Charlie.
Stop pretending, brother.
It s okay that you don t go for the ladies, Reid crowed in a 2007 post about Crist.8/x Joy constantly refers to Crist mockingly as "Miss Charlie" and insinuates that his marriage is a fraud to cover up his being gay.
pic.twitter.com/HMcGE1LlPr James M (@Jamie_Maz) November 30, 2017Crist was a Republican when Joy mocked his sexuality.
In 2012, he switched over to the Democratic Party, so they re on the same side now, as it were.After being widely slammed on Twitter, Reid finally apologized in a statement to the press 10 years after the hypocritical anti-gay attacks.
I deeply apologize to Congressman Crist, who was the target of my thoughtlessness, Reid wrote.
This note is my apology to all who are disappointed by the content of blogs I wrote a decade ago, for which my choice of words and tone have legitimately been criticized.
She added: Re-reading those old blog posts, I am disappointed in myself.
I apologize to those who also are disappointed in me.
Life can be humbling.
It often is.
Crist has never come out as gay, and he has been married twice to women.
And if he were gay, that would actually make him a liberal hero according to leftist orthodoxy.Reid also suggested Crist married women to promote his career.
Meanwhile, Reid never condemned Democratic senator Elizabeth Warren for falsely claiming she was Native American to get advance her career.HATEFUL DEMOCRATS AREN T HARD TO FIND THESE DAYS This woman just happens to be on a major news network spewing her vile hatred every day.
Just think a younger version of Maxine Waters.