Since Sweden became the #1 destination for diversity and multiculturalism, they ve become the rape capital of the world yes, the world!
Rape has skyrocketed as refugee resettlement has vastly increased.
The Swedish police are warning the Swedish women not to go out after dark.
It s just too dangerous!
Can you believe that?
Officers in picturesque stersund issued the astonishing warning after gangs of foreign men went on the rampage, attempting to rape women in the street and even groping a group of 10-year-old girls at a bus stop.The shocking announcement will heighten concerns around the effects of mass migration on Sweden, which has been struggling to integrate more then 150,000 predominantly Muslim migrants.Women in the tiny lakeside town of stersund, in central Sweden, have been terrorized by sex attacks with six such incidents being recorded in the last two weeks.
In all of the cases the male attackers, often acting in gangs, were described as being of foreign appearance .The attacks come as Swedish authorities have begun sending increasing numbers of migrants to a refugee reception centre in the small town because all accommodation further south has already been filled.Speaking at an extraordinary press conference yesterday police chiefs issued a stunning warning to women, telling them stersund is now so unsafe they should not go out after dark alone.
Regional police chief Stephen Jerand said the attacks were unusual because none of the perpetrators appeared to be drunk, adding that officers have witnessed a worrying trend in the town.He said: The cases of the sexual harassment and attempted rapes have involved groups of up to three people.
What stands out is also that none of these perpetrators have been under the influence.
Now the police are going out and warning women against travelling alone in the city.
We have seen a worrying trend.
This is serious, we care about the protection of women and that is why we are going out and talking about this.
The most recent assault took place in the early hours of Sunday morning, when three young men attempted to rape a woman in the town centre.
Read more: Express