White House press secretary of Alternative Facts Sean Spicer tried to attack the New York Times over an article detailing disorder in the West Wing over the executive order banning seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the U.S. That report details that Trump watches TV in his bathrobe.
So naturally, Spicey said the report was inaccurate despite there being several pictures of Trump in a bathrobe which have circulated for quite awhile now.
Spicer thinks the New York Times should apologize to the fake president about the bathrobes comment, because feelings.
That story was so riddled with inaccuracies and lies that they owe the President an apology for the way that thing was written, he told reporters aboard Air Force One, according to CNN.
There were literally blatant factual errors, and it s unacceptable to see that kind of reporting.
Oh, lookie here s another pic of Trump in a bathrobe which he totally doesn t wear:One detail really irked Spice.
I don t think the President wears a bathrobe, and definitely doesn t own one, he said.
We re not sure how Spicer knows if Trump wears a bathrobe or not, but we can speculate.The New York Times reported that when Trump is not watching television in his bathrobe or on his phone reaching out to old campaign hands and advisers, he will sometimes set off to explore the unfamiliar surroundings of his new home.
And if this is true, it s even worse for the Crybaby-in-Chief:Spicer also said Trump was fully aware of what his executive orders contain, including one about restructuring the National Security Counsel.
The President is clearly aware of the policies that come out of the White House with his name on it, Spicer declared.Twitter being Twitter, just after Spicer s comments, several Twitter users circulated images of Trump wearing a bathrobe.Spicer: Trump doesn t own a bathrobe / Must be those #AlternativeFacts eh @PressSec ?
https://t.co/2IcjViqbWY pic.twitter.com/v0pYLbKhej 4q2 (@ForQ2) February 6, 2017 Sup @POTUS!
Picturing you writing this tweet in your bathrobe & crackin up!
Did your boss Bannon yell at U for this?
Haha #hitmeback pic.twitter.com/t6LRfk0vDm Danny Zuker (@DannyZuker) February 6, 2017Also, too, the Twitter account @POTUSBathrobe suddenly appeared.
Just like that.Yes, I ve been to Russia .that s all I have to say about that.
POTUS Bathrobe (@POTUSBathrobe) February 6, 2017Team Trump doesn t want you to believe what you ve seen with your own eyes.
By the way, there are quite a few pictures of Trump wearing a bathrobe which Spicer will probably tell you is fake news.
Read more:Images: circulating all over Twitter.