It looks as though Republicans are hellbent on obstructing President Obama from doing his constitutional responsibility of nominating a new Justice to the Supreme Court to replace the recently departed Justice Antonin Scalia.
They keep touting the line that we should wait until the next president is elected, that way the people can weigh in on who they d like as a replacement, not quite realizing the people did weigh in (twice) when they elected and reelected President Obama.
However, they know that Justice Scalia was the most conservative voice on the Court and knowing that Obama has the chance to nominate a liberal terrifies them to no end.No greater example of this fear was demonstrated than by Republican presidential candidate Sen. Marco Rubio while on Meet the Press with Chuck Todd.
Rubio said: We have an obligation to do it, but not now.
This term of the Supreme Court, they just started it.
But it s not all year long.
The court can function with eight justices, it does it all the time, especially when justices have to recuse themselves.
For example, Kagan had to recuse herself early in her term because she had just left the administration.We re going to have an election in November where this vacancy is going to be an item of debate and voters are going to get their weigh in.
So I just don t think it s wise.
And there s precedent for this, for a president nearing the last few months of his administration, to put someone on the court that may be there for 30 years.
If you squint, you ll be able to see Rubio reach down his pants to pull that statement out of his ass.
And knowing that line is absolute poppycock, and listening to Rubio try to justify himself, Chuck Todd snaps back: Do presidential terms end after three years?
That s what I don t understand, is why not go through the advice and consent?
You don t have to approve it.
You can reject it.
That s what happened in 68.
But why not go through this process?
And BOOM goes the dynamite.
Todd was quite visibly perplexed and couldn t quite seem to be able to wrap his head around the fact that Rubio was actually saying the words that were coming out of his mouth.However, Rubio wasn t done.
Squirming in his Underoos after that question, he said: There comes a point in the last year of the president, especially in their second term, where you stop nominating.
You basically say, at this point, with a few months left in your term, no accountability from the ballot box on the appointment you re going to make on a lifetime appointment.
But Todd interrupts this malarkey: We re Eleven months .!
Declaring the amount of time left in Obama s term as Commander-in-Chief, and insinuating the president has every right to nominate someone new.Squirming some more, Rubio keeps denying the fact that Obama has every right to nominate a new Justice, because he thinks that he s going to be president and he wants to nominate a conservative just like Scalia.What Rubio needs to understand is, President Obama can, should and will nominate someone to replace Scalia.
Republicans are showing their fear and it s ugly.
They are proving they are constitutionalists until they actually have to abide by the constitution, as per usual.Let s hope Obama nominates someone amazing, and nominates them soon.Watch the interaction here: Video: NBC Featured image: Screen Capture