Wow maybe they could include a place where the mothers could pose with their dead babies a photo gallery of sorts Women all over the world have opened up on the still relatively taboo subject of abortion on secret-sharing app Whisper.Finding relief in the anonymity aspect of the app, individuals took the opportunity to reveal their true unabashed feelings on the termination of their pregnancies.Without censorship, frank confessions varied from lack of remorse, to one woman even admitting that she visited a nightclub the very same day.Whisper is an online community that allows anonymous users to share and comment on each other s secrets, allowing individuals to air their emotions without any fear of retribution.
Women of all ages, who admitted to not regretting their decision to have an abortion, were asked to shed a light on their thought processes and emotions.One woman talked about her unshakable stance, citing: Having an abortion was the easiest decision of my life.
Another individual revealed her own extensive and unbridled history with terminating pregnancies, stating: I ve had 5 abortions because I love getting pregnant but just not ready for kids.
Many of the Whisper users talked about other people s projection of guilt or regret, that they had failed to experience themselves.
One confused woman wrote: Sometimes I feel guilty over the fact that I feel no guilt about my abortion.
A rather shocking confession came from a woman that continued on with her party lifestyle after the often exhausting procedure: I had an abortion a week ago.
I don t feel the slightest bit of guilt, I even went out to a club on the same day.
Here are some women who shared their thoughts on abortion:Here s a woman who in 2010 made a Youtube video to share her positive experience about her abortion.
She finishes her video by saying: I hope everyone on Youtube has a great and godless day.
Another Whisper user talked about how time passing had no effect on the feeling of regret with her decision: 5 years and I ve not once felt regret for my abortion.
No regret, no guilt, no second thoughts, nothing.
Another added: I ve had two abortions in two years.
I keep waiting for the guilt to come, but so far I feel nothing.
Others used the opportunity as an emotional outlet to directly speak to people who had judged them.One woman argued: I don t regret my abortion regardless of how much you think I should.
Some women even went so far to express the happiness at their decision, with one woman adding: I ve had 5 abortions and I don t feel bad or sad about any of them I was kinda happy.
Similarly, another woman compared her own sensations of relief and happiness to other people s darker experience, writing: I actually find it strange how depressed people get after having an abortion.
I don t regret mine one bit, let alone feel depressed about it.
Via: UK Daily Mail