It s perfectly appropriate for a male rapist to make his way into a public girl s bathroom but a woman working out with her husband in a gym is not allowed to wear a TANK TOP because the size of her breasts might offend someone?
Saying she felt degraded, an Ottawa woman is pursuing a possible human rights complaint against a local health club that asked her not to wear a tank top allegedly because of the size of her breasts.But the club, Movati Athletic, was fighting back against Jenna Vecchio Friday, saying that while it did not intend to embarrass her, it was she and her husband who chose to make the dispute public.Vecchio said she has contacted a human rights lawyer and is considering her options after she was told by a female staff member at Movati that her black, form-fitting tank top was making other gym members uncomfortable.The incident, which took place last Saturday while Vecchio and her husband were working out, left the woman shaken.
It was humiliating because there were other members around (who) stopped doing what they were doing to listen in on the conversation, Vecchio told The Canadian Press.
I felt singled out, degraded, she added.
My chest became the focus of conversation and that s not something a woman likes to discuss openly with people.
Vecchio shared her story on Facebook.
It currently has over 5,200 shares.Here is Vecchio s post to Facebook:Vecchio returned to the gym two days later, where she cancelled her membership after speaking with the club manager, who promised to look into the matter and get back to her.But Vecchio didn t get a response and said she only heard through the media that Movati is standing by the decision.In a statement, the company said it launched an investigation after it saw Vecchio s Facebook post, and that it is upholding the decision to enforce its dress code.
Following Ms. Vecchio s own social media postings on this matter, we conducted a thorough investigation which included first-hand accounts from members and other staff, and a followup meeting with Jenna herself, said the statement.
Upon conclusion of our interviews, we stand by the original decision that confirms that Ms. Vecchio was dressed inconsistently with our code of conduct.
Via: National Post