Having stayed close to the Obama family for both of President Barack Obama s terms, White House photographer Pete Souza has shared a variety of moments with our president and his family.
Souza has gotten to witness both light-hearted and challenging moments for America s first African American president, and has had the privilege of capturing many of them on camera.As January marks the beginning of a new year, it also represents the last year that Barack Obama will lead the country.
On Wednesday, Souza released his annual Year in Photographs list, revealing over 100 of the most memorable public and intimate moments of the Obama s life inside and outside of the White House.
Souza explained: Editing photographs, especially for a project like this, is both subjective and personal.
I not only found key historic moments from the year, but also chose moments that give people a more personal look at the lives of the President and First Lady.
I ve also included many photographs that rely more on their graphic qualities, including light and composition.
In Souza s collection, monumental wins such as the White House being lit with rainbow colors after the nationwide legalization of gay marriage are portrayed alongside heartbreaking losses such as the funeral of Vice President Joe Biden s son, Beau.
There are also everyday family moments of the president interacting with staffer s children and his own family.
These photos give an inside glimpse into the character of the man who has shaped America over the last several years.
You can view the entire collection here, but we ve picked our favorites below:February 23, 2015:Malia, Obama s oldest daughter, stopped by the Oval office to visit her dad.
While they were catching up, she wiped something off his face.March 7, 2015:On the 50th anniversary of Selma, the President and his family marched with many others to walk across the Edmund Pettus Bridge.March 7, 2015:President Obama and the First Lady were captured holding hands as they listen to Rep. John Lewis speak at an event to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of Bloody Sunday and the Selma to Montgomery civil rights marches.March 27, 2015Michelle Obama snuggled with her husband during a taping for the 2015 World Expo in the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House.April 9, 2015Obama waved as he departed from Kingston, Jamaica, his arm aligning with a rainbow.June 6, 2015:Obama hugged Vice President Joe Biden after giving a eulogy for Joe s son, Beau Biden.June 26, 2015:The White House celebrated the Supreme Court ruling on gay marriage with rainbow lights.
October 30, 2015Barack and Michelle Obama laughed at a child s Pope costume and mini popemobile at a Halloween event held at the White House.October 30, 2015:Obama held Ella Rhodes, daughter of Deputy National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes, in her elephant Halloween costume.November 21, 2015: As Donald Trump and the Republican party vowed to prevent Syrian refugees from coming to America, Obama spoke to a young refugee at a Dignity for Children Foundation classroom in Malaysia.
November 30, 2015Obama made an unannounced stop at the memorial in front of le Bataclan, where the Paris terrorist attack had taken place.
He is pictured with French President Fran ois Hollande and Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo.December 22, 2015Souza and Obama hiked up the 1,048 wooden steps of the Koko Head Crater Trail.
Of the experience, Souza said, I ll admit that I was huffing and puffing up the trail, but to my friends, this photograph is proof that I indeed made it to the top with my boss.
Featured image via Pete Souza