The New York Times just confirmed what we ve all known since Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell threw his support to Luther Strange in the Alabama primary The GOP will do anything it can to stop Judge Moore from becoming a US Senator.
A report at the New York Times indicates that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., may not seat Moore even if he wins the election.
Moreover, Republican elites are trying to get the election pushed back.
The Republicans have pulled funds from Judge Moore even though there is no proof he s guilty of these charges.
It s an obvious sandbagging of a candidate the Republican swamp creatures and Democrats don t like.According to the New York Times:Republican senators and their advisers, in a flurry of phone calls, emails and text messages, discussed fielding a write-in candidate, pushing Alabama s governor to delay the Dec. 12 special election or even not seating Mr. Moore at all should he be elected.
In an interview, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, declined to say whether he would agree to seat Mr. Moore should he win.
Mr. McConnell deferred a question about a possible write-in campaign by Senator Luther Strange, the current occupant of the seat, to Mr. Strange.The establishment is losing control so they re taking drastic measures to get it back The scandal facing candidate Roy Moore is the biggest hit job since the fake Russian Golden Showers Dossier the DNC and media pushed out to try and destroy Trump.
You have to really question Republican leadership when they go to these lengths to harm a candidate.
Judge Moore has been in public service for decades but we re just now hearing about the issue with a 14-year old when he was 32?
C mon now This smells to high heaven of a smear job.Remember that the swamp creatures in the Republican Party detest Trump because he s not beholden to the Chamber of Commerce s wish for illegal cheap labor.
The bottom line is these politicians aren t putting Americans first.
They need to be dumped next election It can t come fast enough!