Most of the world will be obsessed with Beyonce s new release, Lemonade because of her unexpected confession that she is married to a cheating pig.
We have instead chosen to focus instead on the continuing efforts of the dynamic racist duo to promote distrust and hate for our law enforcemen, while helping their dear friend Barack Obama to promote racial division in America.
Beyonce s self-portrayal as a saint leading women to baptism is laughable considering the hateful and divisive messages she continues to promote in her songs.
She has become nothing more than a tool for Obama and the Black Lives Matter terror group.
Anyone who buys her music from her husband s racist label is making a direct contribution to hate.The mothers of Trayvon Martin and and Michael Brown are featured in Beyonce s new album, which was released on Jay-Z s Tidal streaming service on Saturday night after an HBO special promoting it.Lemonade is the title of both the singer s first album in three years, and the visual album which aired on HBO to promote it.
And the singer continued to lace her work with a political message, as well as hitting out at her husband Jay-Z amid rumors of infidelity while ultimately appearing to forgive him.The film which aired on HBO served as a bold tribute to the perseverance of African American women and the Black Lives Matter movement.The pop queen drew a theme early in Lemonade as the film cuts to a snippet from late civil rights leader Malcolm X, who is heard saying: The most disrespected person in America is the black woman.
Later, Mike Brown s mother Lesley McSpadden is seen crying as she holds a photo of her late son, whose shooting death by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri in 2014 sparked protests and a Department of Justice investigation.Trayvon Martin s mother Sybrina Fulton is also seen holding a photo of her son, who was shot dead at the age of 17 by George Zimmerman, in a case that sparked national outrage in 2012.
After screening on HBO, the album will only be available on Tidal, Jay Z s pay-for music subscription.
However, HBO will screen a rerun on Sunday April 24 at 8pm Eastern Time.Beyonc has been known to get political with her music she caused controversy at the Super Bowl after she and her dancers dressed similarly to the Black Panther Party, which was known for being confrontational with officers.Just before the Super Bowl, Beyonc released Formation and accompanied the song with a video in line with the burgeoning Black Lives Matter movement against perceived police brutality, with one scene showing officers raising their hands up as if under arrest.The video won wide praise from activists and Beyonc s fan base, although her political turn outraged some conservatives.Beyonc , one of the most successful contemporary artists who has mostly avoided controversy in the past, later said in an interview that she was taking issue with abuses, not with all police.The pop queen, whose Formation World Tour begins next month, again got political in the visual album.In addition to playing a quote from Malcolm X, the singer included the mothers of African-American victims of police brutality and gun violence.Mike Brown s mother Lesley McSpadden is seen crying as she holds a photo of her late son, whose shooting death by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri in 2014 sparked protests and a Department of Justice investigation.Trayvon Martin s mother Sybrina Fulton is also seen holding a photo of her son, who was shot dead at the age of 17 by George Zimmerman, in a case that sparked national outrage in 2012.
In another segment, Beyonc sings about breaking her own chains and being free.And in a spoken-word interlude, a young African-American man talks about how President Obama inspired him.Lemonade also included clips of a young Beyonc with her father, Mathew Knowles.
Beyonc sits next to him on the sofa, as they exchange I love yous.
The film begins with a mention of her father, as Beyonc whispers: Where do you go when you go quiet?
You remind me of my father, a magician, able to exist in two places at once.
In the tradition of men, in my blood you come home at 3am and lie to me.
What are you hiding?
she whispers.And she makes numerous pointed references to an unfaithful lover before her husband Jay Z appears as she sings about forgiveness.
In the fourth track of the album, titled Sorry, Beyonc sings: Middle fingers up, put them hands high.
Wave it in his face, tell him, boy, bye.
Tell him, boy, bye, middle fingers up.
I ain t thinking bout you.
She concludes: He better call Becky with the good hair.
The scene drove viewers and listeners wild, with thousands of comments flooding Twitter about this elusive Becky .
Within minutes #BeckyWithTheGoodHair was trending on Twitter.As she sits at a piano alone, viewers see flashback scenes of her wedding to Jay Z in 2008, and them lying in bed together.
My daddy warned me about men like you, she sings.
Cause every promise, don t work out that way.
Nothing seems to hurt like the smile on your face.
At one point she sings Are you cheating on me?
then later says she is jealous and crazy .Later, the couple appear together as she sings: Baptize me.
Now that reconciliation is possible, if we re gonna heal, let it be glorious.
Another clip showed the pair getting matching IV tattoos on their ring fingers in a tribute to their daughter Blue Ivy.But anyone that wants to rewatch it will have to download Tidal, which holds exclusive rights to the whole album.Tidal, which costs $9.99-a-month, is Jay Z s attempt to rival free services like Spotify and YouTube, which he claims to not value artists content.
It was set up in early 2015 after Jay Z bought the company from its Swedish founders.
Via: Daily Mail