DNC chairman Tom Perez decided to create his own reality during a speech on Tuesday.
This is such a Democrat thing they love to make up a false narrative and push it over and over to the sheeple who follow them.
It s really pitiful that after so many months that all the Democrats have is this lie The electoral college is a brilliant creation because it gives balance to voters Would you want California and New York deciding our elections?
That s what would happen without the electoral college.
We bet that Perez already knows this but is counting on the uneducated voters to buy into it .Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez incorrectly stated the Electoral College is not a creation of the Constitution during a Tuesday night speech.
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10'; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));DNC Chair Tom Perez incorrectly claims the Electoral College is not a creation of the Constitution Posted by Fox & Friends on Friday, October 27, 2017 The Electoral College is not a creation of the Constitution, Perez said during a lecture at Indiana University Law School.
It doesn t have to be there.
The Electoral College, a mechanism for indirect election of the president created by the Founding Fathers as a compromise between smaller states and larger states, is clearly laid out in Article II of the Constitution: Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress.
Perez has previously stated that President Donald Trump didn t win last November s election because Hillary Clinton won the popular vote:Following his comment, Perez went on to explain his hopes that states agree to a national popular vote compact, in which states agree to give their allocated electoral votes to the winner of the national popular vote.
There s a national popular vote compact in which a number of states have passed a bill that says, we will allocate our vote, our electoral votes, to the person who wins the national popular vote once other states totaling 170 electoral votes do the same, Perez said.
I m frankly proud to tell you that the first state to pass such a law was Maryland.
The main supporters of the plan put forward by Perez seem to understand it is a plan to circumvent the system created by the Constitution, not an argument that the system doesn t exist.The comment from Perez came during a lecture honoring former Indiana Democratic Sen. Birch Bayh, who was accused last year of sexual assault by a writer who said Bayh groped her in the backseat of a limousine.
VIA: WFBOUR PREVIOUS REPORT ON THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE:PLEASE SHARE THIS WITH THE CLUELESS LEFT!
If the president were elected by unfiltered national vote, small and rural states would become irrelevant, and campaigns would spend their time in large, populous districts.
The Electoral College remains in place over two centuries after the framers of the Constitution empowered it to select presidents.
Though occasionally maligned, this system of electing a chief executive has been incredibly successful for the American people.The Founding Fathers created the Electoral College after much debate and compromise, but it has provided stability to the process of picking presidents.
Though the winner of the national popular vote typically takes the presidency, that vote failed to determine the winner in four elections: 1824, 1876, 1888, and 2000.Some see the Electoral College as a peculiar and mystifying institution that ensures only a few, select individuals will ever cast a direct vote for president in the United States.
Others complain that the system rewards smaller states with more proportional power than the large ones.Every four years, around election time, there are murmurs about revamping the system and moving toward a direct, national popular vote.The Founders CollegeAs one of The Heritage Foundations legal experts, Hans von Spakovsky, noted in a paper on the Electoral College: In creating the basic architecture of the American government, the Founders struggled to satisfy each state s demand for greater representation while attempting to balance popular sovereignty against the risk posed to the minority from majoritarian rule.
Some elements of the Electoral College, such as the indirect vote through intermediaries, were hotly debated at the 1787 Constitutional Convention.
It was eventually justified in part as a stopgap to potentially reverse the vote if the people elected a criminal, traitor, or similar kind of heinous person.
The Founders wanted to empower democratic elements in the American system, but they feared a kind of pure, unrestrained democracy that had brought down great republics of the past.The product of the Founders compromise has been well balanced and enduring, and we would be wise to leave it intact.Alexander Hamilton defended the Electoral College in Federalist 68.
He argued that it was important for the people as a whole to have a great deal of power in choosing their president, but it was also desirable that the immediate election should be made by men most capable of analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation, and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and inducements which were proper to govern their choice.
Hamilton also wrote that this system of intermediaries would produce a greater amount of stability, and that an intermediate body of electors will be much less apt to convulse the community with any extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice of one who was himself to be the final object of the public wishes.
As students of ancient history, the Founders feared the destructive passions of direct democracy, and as recent subjects of an overreaching monarch, they equally feared the rule of an elite unresponsive to the will of the people.
The Electoral College was a compromise, neither fully democratic nor aristocratic.The Constitution states:Each state shall appoint, in such manner as the legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors, equal to the whole number of senators and representatives to which the state may be entitled in the Congress.In addition to balancing the protection of individual rights and majority rule, the Founding Fathers attempted to create a federalist system that would keep most of policymaking power reserved to states and localities.
America s presidential election system also was designed to empower the states, not just the American people as an undifferentiated mass.The total number of electors and thus electoral votes across all states and the District of Columbia included after the passage of the 23rd Amendment adds up to 538.
The winner must receive a majority, or 270, of these votes to become president.The system empowers states, especially smaller ones, because it incentivizes presidential candidates to appeal to places that may be far away from population centers.
Farmers in Iowa may have very different concerns than bankers in New York.
A more federalist system of electing presidents takes that into account.The states are free to select the method in which they choose their electors.
In the early days of the republic, most states chose to have their legislatures pick electors, rather than the people.
But, over time, the states shifted to choosing electors via the state s popular vote instead.
Every state has opted for popular election at least since the Civil War.Calls to AbolishModern opponents of the Electoral College argue against what they call antidemocratic aspects of the institution, criticizing both the intermediary electors and the state-by-state system of voting.Calls to fundamentally change the Electoral College reached a peak after Republican George W. Bush defeated Democrat Al Gore in the tightly contested 2000 election.
Gore narrowly won the national popular vote, and many of his supporters howled that the system even without the Supreme Court stepping in was unfair.One organization, National Popular Vote, has worked toward eliminating the Electoral College through an amendment to the Constitution or a state compact.
National Popular Vote argues that the current system encourages presidential candidates to spend most of their time in swing states rather than campaigning for votes across the entire country.This plan for a national popular vote has received a moderate level of support, but Heritage s von Spakovsky has called it bad policy, based on mistaken assumptions.
Swing states, he wrote, can change from election to election, and many states that are today considered to be reliably blue or red in the presidential race were recently unpredictable.
Many states have signed on to a bill that essentially would tie a state s electoral votes to the national popular vote.
Those states will pledge to swing all of their electoral votes to the winner of the national vote.But this is because the incentives would be to appeal only to the biggest population centers.
Swing states change over time, and the 2016 election could be a prime example of swing-state unpredictability and erosion of the traditional partisan political map.Additionally, if the president were elected by unfiltered national vote, small and rural states would become irrelevant, and campaigns would spend their time in large, populous districts.FINALLY ARE THE DEMOCRATS PROUD OF THIS DISGUSTING MAN WHO CURSES AND LIES?Read more: Daily Signal