Donald Trump claimed that his ban would make America safe while favoring Christian refugees.
He lied.On Sunday, Trump defended an executive order banning refugees from seven nations from entering the United States by claiming that it won t affect Christians.Christians in the Middle-East have been executed in large numbers.
We cannot allow this horror to continue!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017Well, two Christian families are about to experience that horror despite almost stepping safely on American soil.According to NBC10, two Syrian families whose flight landed in Philadelphia were denied entry into the country and placed on a plane back to Syria despite being Christians and having family waiting for them at the airport.Two brothers and their wives and children fled Syria due to the war, persecution, and suffering taking place in the Middle Eastern nation.
They have been working to come live in America for quite some time and it took months to go through the process of obtaining visas to get the opportunity to come here.
Their travel plans had been set months in advance and they were looking forward to living in peace and making better lives for themselves in our land of opportunity.Pennsylvania resident and family member Joseph Assali called the situation a nightmare.
This is like a nightmare come true, Assali said.
They re all Christian citizens and the executive order was supposed to protect Christians fleeing persecution.
But it turns out Trump s order doesn t just affect Muslims, but anyone who seeks refuge from the seven countries on the list, even Christians Trump promised would not be turned away.
They came as legal immigrants and were going to try sorting things out while they re here, Assali continued, going on to state that his family members intended to become American citizens.But now they are on their way back to Syria, where they face persecution and possible death because of Donald Trump s bigotry and hatred.Here s the video via NBC10.Trump s order has caused and heartache around the world as families live in fear wondering if they will ever see their loved ones again.
People are being detained at airports across the country or blocked from getting on planes just because they happen to be Muslim or from one of the countries on the list.
People who have green cards are being affected and now even Christians are being punished by the order.But regardless of religion, any refugee should be granted asylum in this country.
We are supposed to be a humanitarian nation, but by signing this ban, Trump turned against our values and gave terrorist organizations propaganda to use for recruitment.
Trump is destroying the lives of millions of innocent people with this executive order and he needs to be stopped before he destroys our nation and everything we hold dear.Featured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images