Last night during the Democratic Presidential Town Hall in Iowa, Democratic presidential candidate absolutely skewered the 2016 Republican candidates for their dangerous rhetoric.Clinton s fiery rant against the GOP came as a response to Islamic Air Force veteran Erum Tariq-Munir, who asked a question that no parent in America should ever have to wonder, but it s completely understandable now that the far-right is upping the crazy.
Noting the rising Islamophobia in the country, Tariq-Munir asked: As a mother of three young children, as an American Muslim, how can I make sure that this country is the best place on earth to raise my family?
Clinton paused and thanked Tariq-Munir for her service before launching into an attack against the people most responsible for the growing bigotry in the United States.
Once she got going, the former Secretary of State couldn t hold back, allowing disgust and anger to flow freely.While Clinton s criticism was intended for all GOP contenders, front-runner Donald Trump was singled out specifically.
Clinton admitted that one of the most distressing parts of the 2016 campaign has been hearing the Republican party s offensive, bigotry-fueled rhetoric.
Visibly upset and disturbed by what this coming election has revealed so far about America s conservatives, Clinton said: One of the most disturbing aspects of this campaign has been the language of Republican candidates, particularly their frontrunner, that insults, demeans, denigrates different people.
I found it particularly harmful the way [Trump] has talked about Muslims.It s not only shameful and offensive, which it is I think it s dangerous We cannot tolerate this.
We must stand up and say, Every person in this country deserves to be treated with respect.
Once she was content that she d ripped the GOP enough, Clinton tied Tariq-Munir s question to foreign policy.
She said: We need a coalition that includes Muslim nations to defeat ISIS and it s pretty hard to figure out how you re going to make a coalition with the very nations you need if you spend your time insulting their religion!
Later on, Clinton solidified her position as a great presidential candidate, demonstrating an amount of poise and class that her GOP rivals would have never been able to pull off.
She said: I want to be the president for everyone, and I believe that is exactly what any president should do.
You can watch Clinton s passionate response below:Standing up against the GOP is now something that comes naturally to Clinton.
Time after time, she demonstrates that she will stand up for ALL Americans not just the rich white ones.TwitterFeatured image is a screenshot