In what s being compared to the infamous Daisy commercial from the 1964 election, a pro-Clinton group released a devastating new ad targeting Donald Trump and his love for war and nuclear destruction.Priorities America, which has been supporting Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and other down ballot Democrats, released the ad earlier this month, and will pour more than $5 million into broadcasting the ad on Friday in six key battleground states: Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, New Hampshire, Nevada and Iowa.Painting Trump as a temperamental, impulsive hawk has been a cornerstone in the Clinton defense strategy, and this ad, though not affiliated with her campaign, seeks to solidify that.
Earlier in the summer, the Clinton campaign began running ads showcasing Trump s impulsive and dangerous rhetoric, saying that one wrong move could be the difference between peace and World War III.This ad, however, is different.
Like the 1964 Daisy ad, this one showcased the infamous mushroom cloud explosion and its destructive consequences.
Appropriately titled I Love War, the crux of the ad stems from Trump s comment made back in November during the Republican primary.
While speaking to a crowd in Fort Dodge, Iowa, Trump reassured his hawkish and loyal followers that he loved and was good at war: I m good at war.
I ve had a lot of wars of my own.
I m really good at war.
I love war in a certain way, but only when we win.
Also shown was Trump s affinity for nuclear devastation, in which he told CNN, Nuclear, just the power, the devastation, is very important to me.
So Priorities America laid it out: we have a candidate who loves war, and is very good at it.
So when the mushroom cloud strikes, don t be surprised.Of course the Trump campaign responded, and pathetically tried to put his I love war quote into context, but ended up using the opportunity to blast the media and Hillary Clinton s poll numbers (which are better than Trump s, might I add) and, surprise, brought up Benghazi.
So they actually didn t clarify what he meant, rather they deflected by pointing the finger at Hillary and avoiding the problem altogether.Typical Trump campaign.Watch the brutal ad here: Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images