Bush spoke to a hispanic audience in central Florida and pandered pretty heavily to the audience.
The audio is pretty raw in places but well worth the listen.
Bush claimed (23 minute mark) that encouraging self deportation is not an American value .
People that come to America illegally broke the law so is he saying he wouldn t follow the rule of law?
He also at the 16:00 mark speaks about making Puerto Rico a state which is also something Obama wanted.
America is 100% FED Up!
with more of the same Former Florida Gov.
Jeb Bush told a Hispanic audience on Monday that illegal aliens must be given U.S. citizenship, and encouraging them to self-deport is not an American value.Bush made his remarks at church in Orlando, where he discussed his Christian faith and support for amnesty for illegal aliens, the same day a CNN poll showed that 64 percent of Republican voter support deporting illegals.Self-deportation is another matter: Since the vast majority of illegal aliens commit felonies in order to forge their documents, something like E-Verify could halt fraud in its tracks.
No fake Social Security Card, no job, less reason to break into the U.S.
Encouraging illegals to leave and to take their massive crime wave with them is a moderate solution to America s immigration problem, but it s too much to stomach for Jeb.In a Spanish interview that day, Jeb also told MSNBC he s hurt by GOP frontrunner Donald Trump s comments that criminals from Mexico are illegally entering the country and committing crimes against Americans, such as rape.
I was hurt hearing somebody speaking in such a vulgar fashion.
This makes solving this problem much more difficult.
When we have politicians like that we cannot progress, said Bush according to a translator.
In a political sense it was bad, and it creates an environment that is worse.
Why pointing out that illegal aliens commit a great deal of crime in the U.S. creates an environment worse than, well, a crime-ridden one is unclear.
Read more: Breitbart