How long do you think our President has known about this?
Anyone else sick of this Muslim Sympathizer In Chief?
The mysterious Pakistani woman who with her husband gunned down 14 Wednesday at a Southern California holiday party pledged her allegiance to ISIS before the massacre, according to a government source, in what appears to be concrete evidence that the rampage was at least inspired, if not directed, by the terrorist group.Tashfeen Malik posted the pledge to ISIS leader and self-proclaimed caliph Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi before the attack, in which she and her husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, stormed a San Bernardino party for his co-workers before escaping, Fox News confirmed through a law enforcement source who said the post was recovered despite the pair s attempts to erase their digital trail.
The couple died hours later in a shootout with police, and in the aftermath the 29-year-old Pakistani woman has remained largely a name without a face.
No confirmed pictures of her have surfaced, and few details have emerged.The pledge, posted on Facebook under another name and then deleted, was reported by The Associated Press, citing federal sources.
It provided a fresh clue to Malik s identity and motivation.
The aura of mystery surrounding Malik has given rise to suspicions she may have been the radicalizing force who turned her new husband from an aloof county restaurant inspector into her cohort in carnage, an Islamist fanatic capable of murdering co-workers who had embraced him for years.
Tashfeen remains the biggest mystery, said a leader of the area s Pakistani-American Muslim community.
She s the one no one knows anything about and has little to no presence on the Internet or having interacted with others in the Muslim community.
Tashfeen remains the biggest mystery.
She s the one no one knows anything about and has little to no presence on the Internet or having interacted with others in the Muslim community.
Southern California Pakistani-American leaderThe aura of mystery surrounding Malik has given rise to suspicions she may have been the radicalizing force who turned her new husband, Syed Rizwan Farook, from an aloof county restaurant inspector into her cohort in carnage, an Islamist fanatic capable of murdering co-workers who had embraced him for years.
Usually it s ISIS supporters trying to radicalize young girls online as they try to find new wives, but this may be the first case I know of where the opposite happened, said Ryan Mauro, a national security analyst for Clarion Project, which tracks international terrorism.Mauro noted that Farook s older brother, who shares his name, served in the U.S. Navy, which would seem to indicate that Farook s radical leanings did not come from within his own family.
It is possible that she radicalized him or that suspected terrorists inside America he was communicating with are responsible for the radicalization, which led him to be attracted to a more hardline Salafi girl, Mauro said.What is known is that Malik met Farook online and that the two became engaged after Farook traveled to Saudi Arabia in September 2013.
Malik applied for a K-1 visa at the American embassy in Islamabad in May, 2014 and two months later Farook again traveled to Saudi Arabia, met her there and brought her to the U.S. on a K-1 visa, a 90-day visa given to fianc s planning to marry Americans.They were married on Aug. 16, 2014, in nearby Riverside County, Calif. according to their marriage license.
The marriage and passage of criminal and national security background checks using FBI and Department of Homeland Security databases resulted in a conditional green card for Malik in July 2015, two months after she gave birth to their baby daughter.Malik and Farook, an American citizen born in Chicago and raised in Southern California by parents of Pakistani descent, lived with their daughter and his mother, Rafia Farook, in a Redlands, Calif., apartment described by one investigator as an IED factory and ammo arsenal.
Via: FOX News