It s no secret that Sean Hannity is one of Donald Trump s biggest bootlickers.
Following Trump s most recent press conference, in which he slammed the media and even called ABC reporter Tom Llamas a sleaze to his face, Hannity spoke with Trump about the so-called liberal media, and what they ve been doing to the poor guy.During the back-and-forth (Hannity is so far up Trump s rear that this can hardly be called an interview), Hannity demonstrated his complete ignorance of the media s coverage of The Donald s veterans fundraiser by asking: Do they think you need the money?
Do they think you re gonna steal it?
Yes, and yes.
That s the whole issue right there.
Apparently, Hannity hasn t been paying attention or he d have known not to ask that question.First of all, Trump s campaign is hardly self-funded and is low on money.
He had to have known his self-funding scheme couldn t last forever.
We re also talking about the liar of liars here who in their right mind wouldn t be suspicious when money goes missing?In addition to the campaign s financial woes, the Washington Post contacted every one of the 24 charities that Trump listed as beneficiaries of his largesse, back in March, to find out what had happened to that $6 million that he said he raised.
They could only account for $3 million of it.There was also Sandra Miniutti, the vice president of Charity Navigator, who said that it s not uncommon for some fundraisers to vet beneficiaries after the fact, such as when they re raising funds in times of emergency.
That makes sense, because they need to work quickly under those circumstances.
Raising the money and then vetting potential beneficiaries is the fastest way to do it.Miniutti also said, though, that it was fair to question why it was taking so long to distribute the money.
Trump already had a list of potential beneficiaries ready, and his fundraiser was ridiculously public.
His groups should have been vetted beforehand.Furthermore, Trump received heavy criticism from some veterans groups who were angry at him for using them as a political stunt, and who were angry because they hadn t yet received the money they were promised.
It wasn t just the press that was trying to figure this out.
Hannity, however, has his blinders firmly in place and is likely blissfully unaware that he just made the liberal media s case for them.Watch the whole debacle of an interview below:Featured image via screen capture from embedded video