On Tuesday, Lewis Black appeared on Comedy Central s The Nightly Show to hype his ABC special, Madoff, but made sure to take the time to be his lovable, crotchety self.
Black says that the most surprising news that arose out of the Iowa caucuses was that Ben Carson seemingly left all of his clothes in Florida and had to fly home to get them.
What s surprising is that Ben Carson flew from Iowa to Florida to get a change of clothes, Black said.
That kind of leads into the other thing that someone really that batsh*t crazy could score 10 percent in Iowa.
Though Black agreed with the rest of the panel that Marco Rubio poses the most severe threat to Hillary Clinton, but Black questioned his ability to actually be President, noting that much of his time in office would be on the job training as with Barack Obama But host Larry Wilmore disagreed, noting that Republicans racist opposition to every single one of the President s initiatives played a bigger role in stifling any progress Obama may have attempted to make.
It was absolutely that, but also it was dealing with it s the same position of a guy who s in the Senate who hasn t been in the Senate long enough, But when Wilmore pointed out that Ted Cruz, whose daughter recently snubbed him as he attempted to orchestrate a warm family moment for the cameras, had a similar background to Rubio, it was on.
Black pointed out that both Trump and Cruz are bullies, but Cruz is far too creepy to be recognized as just as big a bully as Donald Trump: Here s what Rubio s problem is right now both Trump and Cruz are both bullies.
So I think that they re going to kind of punch him.
What I really find interesting about Cruz, after everything else, is that people don t seem to have noticed that he is a bully.
Trump is an obvious bully.
Cruz is the bully who acts weird, and he s acting weird all the time, and so you end up doing what the weird guy wants you to do so he ll stop acting weird.
Trump is such an amazing overbearing asshole that we can t see how creepy Cruz is, Wilmore added, with Black noting that there s a touch of ferret in Cruz s family.Cruz is remembered as the creepy guy in school.
His former college roommate, Craig Mazin, is almost addicted to telling people about it on Twitter, noting that the presidential hopeful leaves behind a greasy film on whatever he touches.
They even had a nickname for it Cruhz.
He was also fond of hanging out near the women s restroom in a bathrobe for reasons we would rather not imagine.Of course, it could be said that Trump is creepy, as well, with his numerous remarks about how he wants to sleep with his daughter and the insanely unsettling ways they pose for photographs, so Cruz does have some competition in that department.
At least Cruz can say, completely honestly, that he doesn t want to sleep with his little girl.Watch Black lay the smack down, below:The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore Get More: The Nightly Show Full Episodes,The Nightly Show on Facebook,The Nightly Show Video ArchiveFeatured image via screengrab