Hours after helping begin to repeal America s universal health care system, Trump was in New York smiling and posing for the cameras as he sat next to the Australian Prime Minister.
Then he opened his mouth.In a surreal reminder of just how oblivious Trump is, the president who had spent months pushing for Congress to strip access to medical care away from Americans turned to the Australian PM and remarked that Australia has a much better health care system than the United States.
We have a failing health care.
I shouldn t say this to the great gentleman and my friend from Australia because you have better health care than we do.
Like many developed nations, Australia has universal health care for all citizens.
They have better health care than we do in large part because Republicans spend so much time and energy ensuring many Americans can t get access to insurance.
Trump just admitted in front of rolling cameras that his latest health care efforts, the reason he s taking a victory lap, actually make Americans worse off than citizens of other countries.The exchanged prompted MSNBC s Chris Hayes and guest Sen. Bernie Sanders to burst into laughter.Trump: Australia has better health care than U.S. (they have universal health care)Watch the reaction from @BernieSanders to @chrislhayes pic.twitter.com/zYF8NsGKF0 Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) May 5, 2017When Sanders managed to get control of his laughter, he remarked that Trump might want to look into Australia s system: Wait a minute!
Wait a minute!
The president has just said it.
That s great.
Let s take a look at the Australian health care system, or maybe let s look at the Canadian health care system, or the ones in Europe.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Let us move to a Medicare for all system that does what every other major country on Earth does: Guarantee healthcare to all people for a fraction of the cost that we spend.
Thank you, Mr. President.
We ll quote you on the floor of the Senate.
If that burn was too many words for the president (we ve heard Trump likes getting things in simple pictures), here s the same sentiment for the visual learner-in-chief:Our President, the moron.Featured image via Twitter