President Obama s response to the attacks on Belgium were dignified and hopeful, and it was exactly the opposite of the divisive and racist rhetoric of Donald Trump and Ted Cruz, who took turns describing the frightening things they would do to Muslims if one of them is elected president.
At a baseball game in Cuba, the president said: It s always a challenge when you have a terrorist attack anywhere in the world, particularly in this age of 24/7 news coverage.
You want to be respectful and understand the gravity of the situation.
But the whole premise of terrorism is to try to disrupt people s ordinary lives and one of my most powerful memories and one of my proudest moments as president was when I watched Boston respond after the marathon.
Unlike the president, Ted Cruz s response was venomous and hateful and he had a sickening new plan, calling for Muslim neighborhoods to be under police watch.
He said: We need to immediately halt the flow of refugees from countries with a significant al Qaida or ISIS presence.
We need to empower law enforcement to patrol and secure Muslim neighborhoods before they become radicalized.
We need to secure the southern border to prevent terrorist infiltration.
And we need to execute a coherent campaign to utterly destroy ISIS.
Then of course there is the crazy Donald Trump.
Instead of sending condolences and creating unity, here s what he had to say: I ve been talking about this for a long time.
Brussels was a beautiful place.
Zero crime, and now it s a disaster city.
It s a total disaster and we have to be very careful as to who we allow into this country.
As usual, nothing but opportunistic Republican politicians looking to cash in on a tragedy.
But the president s words resonated hope.
He continued by saying: They cannot defeat America.
They don t produce anything.
They don t have a message that appeals to the vast majority of Muslims or the vast majority of people around the world.
What they can do is scare and make people afraid and disrupt our daily lives and divide us and as long as we don t allow that to happen, we re gonna be okay.
Cruz and Trump are clearly falling into the trap of what terror is designed to do.
Let s hope they don t succeed because if they do, that means that terror has succeeded.Watch Video Here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SDdTiKLhCcc] Featured image via Wikimedia Commons.