The outspoken comedian posed for a photo shoot with controversial photographer Tyler Shields in which she is holding a bloodied mask of President Trump.
***WARNING***Photo is graphic and could be confused with an act of terror by an ISIS terrorist:Here s the gruesome ISIS inspired video that Griffin posted to Twitter:https://twitter.com/kathygriffin/status/869654650844098562TMZ published the gory photo from Griffin s photo session with the famed Shields, known for his shocking pictures.
FOXIt didn t take long for the son and father of 5 of President Donald J. Trump s grandchildren to react to the ISIS-like photo liberals like comedian Kathy Griffin think is funny Donald Trump Jr. is blasting Kathy Griffin, and all liberals, for her photo op with a bloodied mask of President Trump but admits he s not all that shocked.Don Jr. called the gory Tyler Shields shot of Kathy Disgusting but not surprising.
This is the left today.
They consider this acceptable.
He also said, Imagine a conservative did this to Obama as POTUS?
TMZDonald Trump Jr. isn t immune from the hateful, and intolerant left.
Only one week before the election, liberal rag magazine Esquire published a story using this bloodied a photo of Donald Trump Jr., a father of five young children simply because he is the son of a man who dared to shake up the system and challenge the rightful heiress to the American throne.The Esquire article was titled:We re just saying that people are saying it.After Kathy Griffin got HAMMERED by Twitter users for her sick and very distasteful photo op, she responded by saying she s not apologizing, she s simply using a bloodied, decapitated head to mock our President:https://twitter.com/kathygriffin/status/869655312239697920Twitter users who didn t find any humor in the photo that more closely resembled an act of terror than an act of humor responded to the vile comedian :It wasn t so long ago that Griffin was seen smiling on a Trump golf course in a photo with Donald Trump s arm around her.
But that was before he became president and threatened her small-minded world.Twitter wasn t the only social media outlet who went after Griffin.
Greg Locke, a popular pastor who posts commentary videos related to current social issues on Facebook really let Kathy Griffin have it.
Watch: