CNN published a hate group map and list from the Southern Poverty Law Center that targeted many Christian Organizations.
The organizations are fearful for their safety after the bogus hate map with the headline, Here are all the active hate groups where you live.
The Southern Poverty Law Center will have blood on their hands if they cause the injury of anyone in these Christian groups.
It s bad enough that they labeled these groups as hate groups but now the people in the groups are fearful.Todd Starnes of Townhall reported:The list included among others American Family Association, Family Research Council, Alliance Defending Freedom, Liberty Counsel and Pacific Justice Institute.American Family Association blasted the CNN story calling it a sham news article that could easily incite violence and place AFA employees and supporters in harm s way.
Liberty Counsel President Mat Staver demanded an immediate retraction calling CNN s report false, defamatory and dangerous.
Liberty Counsel is not a hate group, he said.
The false hate label is very damaging to our reputation and is a safety risk to our staff.
Liberty Counsel is a Christian ministry, and hates no one.
Conservatives and Christians have good reason to be worried.In 2012, Floyd Lee Corkins opened fire inside Family Research Council headquarters in Washington, D.C. A security guard was shot and wounded.The domestic terrorist told police he wanted to kill as many employees as possible to intimidate opponents of same-sex marriage.
Corkins brought along Chick-fil-A sandwiches, which he intended to smear on the faces of dead staffers.Corkins told authorities that he picked his target using the Southern Poverty Law Center s so-called hate map.
Family Research Council President Tony Perkins appeared on my nationally syndicated radio show Thursday to condemn CNN for using material from an organization that is an attack dog of the Left.
They are not a neutral arbiter that is calling balls and strikes.
They are on the field playing.
They are pushing an agenda and anyone who opposes them they slap a label on them, Perkins told me.
They are inciting violence and it needs to stop, he added.READ MORE: TOWNHALL