Kid Rock has struck panic into the hearts of liberal politicians upon his announcement that he will be running for senate in Michigan.Kid Rock, whose real name is Robert James Ritchie, is from Romeo, Michigan and will be a force to be reckoned with in the upcoming election.U.S.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren is already sounding the alarm with her Democratic base, warning a Senate run by Detroit bad boy Kid Rock could be the second coming of Donald Trump.Watch Fox News host, Tom Shillue tell panelists, If Kid Rock runs for Senate, he ll win :The Wasting Time and All Summer Long rap rocker-turned-country singer tweeted on Wednesday that he s running for U.S. Senate in Michigan.
Although it s been largely dismissed so far as a publicity stunt, Warren isn t taking any chances with the longshot Republican.
I know a lot of people are thinking: this is some sort of joke, right?
Warren wrote in an email blast with the subject line Senator Kid Rock (R-MI).
Well, she said, maybe this is all a joke but we all thought Donald Trump was joking when he rode down the escalator at Trump Tower and announced his campaign, too.
And sure, maybe this is just a marketing gimmick for a new album or tour but we all thought Donald Trump was just promoting his reality TV show, too, she added.In her email, Warren included a link where people could donate to Michigan Democratic U.S. Sen. Debbie Stabenow and her own reelection campaign.A Warren campaign spokeswoman did not return repeated inquiries about how much the fundraising appeal has hauled in or the strategy behind it.But if the effort succeeds, other Democrats are likely to also cash in on a Rock candidacy remote as it may be to fill their own campaign coffers, said Larry Sabato, a political science professor at the University of Virginia.
Political elites and activists who actually give money to campaigns keep up with all this stuff, he said.
Plus, the most effective direct mail is often tied to something that just happened something that can be spun into a threat.
Republican state Rep. Geoff Diehl, who will officially challenge Warren next month, blasted the email as proof that Warren is more concerned about crafting a bid for the White House.
She uses any and every issue, whether it s a celebrity Republican or it s Hillary Clinton, to try to scare her support base into giving her more money so that she can reach that main goal I believe of running for president not of focusing on the concerns of her constituents in Massachusetts, said Diehl.Still, don t count him out, said Saul Anuzis, the former chairman of the Michigan Republican Party.
He s well-liked, said Anuzis.
He s a big proponent of Detroit and somebody who s put his money where his mouth is investing back home.
Boston HeraldKid Rock is taking a page from the Donald Trump playbook.
He s already responding to #FakeNews on his website.