It sounds like Paul LePage just claimed that he was elected twice via a rigged system.Because that s the only real way he can honestly declare that Maine is already in the bag for Hillary Clinton.But that s exactly what the Tea Party Maine Governor said during a phone interview with WVOM radio this week in defense of his buddy Donald Trump.The Republican nominee has been desperately trying to convince everyone that the only reason he is losing in the polls and will lose on November 8th is because the media and Hillary Clinton s campaign are rigging the election against him.And Lepage, whose own constituents in Maine are calling for him to resign, believes him.
I am not confident that we are going to have a clean election in Maine, LePage said.
Will people from the cemetery be voting?
Yes, all around the country.
The media and the Democratic Party want everybody to vote, whether they re citizens or not.
LePage also said that he doesn t think the elections in the state of Maine or the United States are legitimate unless voter ID laws are in place everywhere.Those are pretty strong declarations.
There s just one large problem.
If Maine elections are rigged by Democrats, how the hell did Paul LePage win in 2010?It s a good question, and one that Maine Secretary of State Michael Dunlap posed in an email to the Bangor Daily News.
Maine has a proud history of full access for voters to participate in our elections, Dunlap wrote.
It s curious that the governor would question the integrity of a system under which he was elected twice.
Indeed, not only has Paul LePage won in his state twice, he did so the first time when Democrats controlled the entire state government.
Democrat John Baldacci served as governor from 2003 to 2011, including during the 2010 Election that somehow swept LePage into office.
In addition, Democrat Michael Dunlap was also Secretary of State at the time.
Furthermore, Democrats had control of the statehouse as they had for four decades.
So really, if Democrats had been in the business of rigging elections, LePage would not be in office right now.
He would have lost his race in 2010.The fact is that voter fraud is incredibly rare in this country.According to the Washington Post, a comprehensive study found that out of one billion votes cast between 2000 and 2014, only 31 cases of voter fraud were found.In other words, America does not have rigged elections.
So like Trump, Paul LePage would be better off shutting his big mouth.Featured Image: Cagle