The Congressional Budget Office released their report on the Senate s version of the Republican health care bill on Monday, and it was not good news.
According to their analysis, a whopping 22 million Americans will lose their insurance coverage if the bill becomes law.
But that is not the extent of the cruelty in this legislation.The CBO report revealed that much like the House version, the Senate bill is especially callous when it comes to the lives of those who are sick, disabled, or elderly you know, the people that need health care the most.If the bill were to pass, older Americans would see their premiums skyrocket.
Under Obamacare, the average cost of insurance coverage for a 64-year-old with an income of $56,800 is $6,800 annually.
But under the Senate bill, dubbed the Better Care Reconciliation Act, that same 64-year-old would see their premiums rise to $20,500 per year.
That means 36 percent of grandma s income will be going to insurance premiums, which does not include the costs of co-pays, deductibles, etc.CBO analysis BCRA premiums, via TwitterThe big brag of this bill is that it will lower premiums for the young and middle-aged (a little bit), assuming they are healthy, of course.
But here s the thing, no one stays young and healthy forever.
Some might argue that the whole point of having health care is so you have the opportunity to get old in the first place.Unless you die a tragic death before your time (probably from gun violence if you are in the U.S., but I digress), you are going to get old.
That much is a guarantee.
It s an either-or thing, not a maybe.
And the chances are pretty good that sooner or later, you are going to get sick.
Which, once again, is the whole point of having health insurance to begin with.
But under the GOP bill, getting sick means you now have one of those nifty pre-existing condition things.So no matter how you look at it, the only way to avoid paying sky-high premiums under the BCRA is to die.
This bill may be a lot of things, but it sure as hell isn t health care.
Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images