According to the Journal of Blacks in Higher Education, this year marks Harvard s highest percentage of accepted black students to date.
Almost 12 percent of the total applicants who were offered admission next fall are black.
Based off Harvard s average student yield of 70 percent, the journal predicts that approximately 170 black students will join the class of 2018.
It goes on to stress the fact that American colleges most known for their selectiveness tend to average only 5 to 10 percent black students.
-HPBlack students at Harvard University will be hosting their own, separate black-only graduation ceremony.The Root reports more than 125 Harvard graduate students have registered to participate in the separate black graduation ceremony scheduled for May 23.According to The Root, the point of the event is to acknowledge the struggles and resilience that black students have had to possess in order to thrive in higher education, an environment where minorities are typically underrepresented.
Courtney Woods, who is graduating with a master s degree in education policy and management, claimed the event is a way to reclaim Harvard s alleged history of slavery, epistemic racism and colonization.
Woods told The Root, Harvard s institutional foundation is in direct conflict with the needs of black students.
There is a legacy of slavery, epistemic racism and colonization at Harvard, which was an institution founded to train rising imperialist leaders, she said.
This is a history that we are reclaiming.
Woods added, It speaks volumes that there has never been a black graduation ceremony until now.
For entire story: MRCtvHere s another example of self-imposed black segregation at Harvard University.
By alienating themselves from the white students and suggesting they kill themselves there will never be a chance for black and white students to overcome racism at Harvard.
In case you missed it, in March, 2015, we published a story about students at Harvard University who held a debate where black Harvard students argued that white people should kill themselves for having white privilege .