Donald Trump s response to the horrific massacre in Orlando the worst in American history was nothing short of disgraceful.
Instead of expressing condolences, he instead congratulated himself on being right about Muslims and used the tragedy as an opportunity to double down on his bigoted plan to ban Muslims from the United States.
HBO s host of Real Time, Bill Maher, wasted no time in ripping Trump a new one on that, and took it a step further and told his viewers what we all already know: Donald Trump is not just an offensive blowhard, he s also an amazing narcissist.
Maher began with Trump s racist attacks on Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who is presiding over his Trump University case: The judge thing looked selfish.
There is no constituency for Trump University except for Donald Trump.
And then the first thing out of his mouth after Orlando was, I was right.
He looks like what he is a narcissist.
One of Maher s panel members, Business Insider Senior Editor Josh Barro, pointed out that the American people have shown better sense than we realize when it comes to Trump s ridiculously offensive Twitter brag regarding Orlando.
He continued: It turns out Americans don t like blatantly racist attacks on the judiciary that also signal that a president might use his own power to support his businesses and defeat his political opponents through untoward things.
And then the response to the shooting.
I think there had been this idea that if there was terrorism that it would be good for Trump.
Bill Maher went so far as to say that this week ended Trump s White House ambitions: I see it as, this was the week it ended.
I don t think I m the only one, because most of the Republicans who were caught on camera this week basically said, I don t want to talk about it.
Of course they don t want to talk about it.
What the hell can they say to what Trump gets up to at his rallies and on national television on an almost daily basis?
Hell, the man even celebrated his 70th birthday this week by accusing the sitting president of treason.
The Republicans who do speak out are the brave ones, such as the former Bush adviser who called him out for what he is ignorant after those remarks that suggest that President Obama was a terrorist sympathizer.Hopefully, Maher is right, and this particularly horrible week in Trump Land has effectively squashed any chance he has at ruining America as President Trump.Watch the clip below, via Raw Story:https://youtu.be/nS3Uv8OVC3IFeatured image via video screen capture