D.L.
Hughley is never one to be shy with his opinions, and once again he didn t hold back when discussing GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump s racism, and the fact that despite said racism, top Republicans continue to endorse him.
Hughley sat down Joy Reid on her MSNBC show AM Joy, and shredded the entire GOP.First, Joy Reid asked Hughley how he felt about President Barack Obama, and Hughley said: The funniest thing about Barack Obama is there are things we want him to do because he s black and he just won t do.
Like we want him to go Hey, man, that s enough?
And he does it better than like that dude who calls you a liar or some of the stuff.
I think he s a decent, humane, thoughtful human being and I think we will miss him when he s gone.
Then, Hughley s attentions were turned to presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, and he had high praise for her as well.
He called her As qualified a human being as I have ever seen run for president.
After that, Hughley endorsed the idea of Hillary Clinton having progressive firebrand Elizabeth Warren as her running mate.
He said of the potential of such a ticket: This man would react to two competent well-intentioned principled women with glee.
I don t see anybody listen, everything men have, black men in particular have, we have because of women.
Everything we have.
Every single thing.
It s their time in the sun.
It s a shame two women I mean, I m not trying to be offensive, but they seem to be braver.
Who fights?
Who goes back and forth on Twitter, which is such a dumb notion.
But who does Trump stay away from?
Elizabeth Warren.
Saving the best for last, Hughley then went on to rip not only Donald Trump, but whole GOP for their racism and their endorsing a clear racist for the highest office in the land.
He said: Donald Trump is a racist.He s a racist and anybody who listen, Paul Ryan basically said that s textbook racism.
So what Paul Ryan actually said is a racist is better than a liberal.
If you say that, it s because you re not affected by racism.
Everything we are, because liberals built this country, you are what you are because of liberals.
Hughley then ripped Reid s MSNBC colleague Joe Scarborough, host of Morning Joe: And I was on with Joe Scarborough, and I don t agree with everything he says, but he brags about this being the party of Lincoln.
When you ve got to keep referencing the dude on the penny, you better update your resume.
Stop it.
Everything you enjoy right now, everybody they like now, they hated before.
They hated Martin Luther King.
Now they pretend.
They hated Muhammad Ali, and they didn t like him until he was shaking going up the stairs at the Olympics.
They didn t start loving him until he was no longer a threat.
You don t get to be a little racist, you don t get to be a little pregnant.
Hughley is right.
The GOP is full of racists.
There s no denying it now.
They are literally supporting a racist for president in a country that has one of the nastiest histories of racism ever.
They d rather have an incompetent racist who is so thin-skinned he d likely start a war in a fit of crazy rage for president rather than a strong, competent, more than qualified liberal woman.
They are literally putting party before country, the good of themselves and their own political careers over that of the nation and world.That says a whole hell of a lot about today s incarnation of the Republican Party, and none of it is good.Thank you, Mr. Hughley, for saying what needs to be said.Watch the video below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture