During the presidential campaign, Donald Trump was thrilled when Great Britain voted to leave the European Union.
Now that he s on his first world trip as BLOTUS and after calling one of our greatest allies bad, very bad, he finally fessed up his real beef with the European Union, and if you haven t guessed, it s that it s too hard for him to get richer.While Trump did love one thing about Europe, the Belgian chocolates, which he called the best, which is high praise coming from the man who claims to know a lot about chocolate, at least in cake form.Our national laughing stock didn t leave it there, though.
He admitted that the real problem he has with Europe has nothing to do with global economics or even immigration.
Trump s problem with Europe is that it takes him too long to open golf courses.According to one source to The Guardian: He made a lot of references to his personal journey.
He explained, for example, the functioning of Europe on the basis of his difficulties in doing business in Ireland, one source told the Francophone paper.A second source told the newspaper: Every time we talk about a country, he remembered the things he had done.
Scotland?
He said he had opened a club.
Ireland?
He said it took him two and a half years to get a licence and that did not give him a very good image of the European Union.
One feels that he wants a system where everything can be realised very quickly and without formalities.
This, in a nutshell, perfectly encapsulates most of what is wrong with Trump.
While he s playing the role of world leader, in reality, his world view is so small that if it s not directly about him, he tunes out.
He won t even read his national security briefings unless the authors pepper his name frequently throughout.
Even then, the briefings have to be short and it s best if they contain pictures.Even beyond that, Trump is a businessman, and regardless of the fact that he technically works for us, he s still only working to enrich himself.Featured image via Franco Origilia/Getty Images.