Donald Trump s popularity with African-Americans is somewhere near zero.
Still, there are some African-American Trump supporters, but it appears that Trump doesn t want anything to do with them, at least not when they show up to his rallies.An African-American Trump supporter attended a rally for the GOP candidate on Wednesday in Kinston, North Carolina.
Soon, Trump s other supporters began singling the man out by waving their signs in his direction.
When Trump saw him, his initial response was, That s all right, leave him alone.
Then, Trump changed his mind.
We have a protester, said the candidate to boos from the crowd.
By the Way, were you paid $1,500 to be a thug?
Where s the protester?
Where is he?
Was he paid?
This was in reference to a heavily edited video by James O Keefe that supposedly implicated Democrats in sending violent agitators to Trump rallies.Then, Trump s security detail began escorting the man out of the rally, with cheers from the audience and You can get him out.
Get him out, from Trump.Here s the video:This man was no Democratic plant, even if the Democratic plants exist.
He was a longtime Trump supporter and North Carolina resident, C.J.
Cary.
All he wanted to do was hand the self-described billionaire a note.Cary, in a phone interview Saturday with The Washington Post, said he had gone to the rally because he wanted to hand-deliver a note to the Republican presidential nominee.
He made his way to about 20 to 30 feet from the stage and was shouting Donald!
while waving his note around to try to catch his attention.
Everyone else is waving Trump signs and I m waving this white letter, Cary, 63, said.
He said that, coupled with the fact that he was wearing sunglasses during an evening rally to deal with his sensitivity to light, may have been what set people off.Source: Washington PostStrangely, Cary still wants to vote for Trump.
He believes he shares a history with the businessman.
Cary wrote to Trump back in 1992 when Trump was separating from Ivana.
Trump allegedly wrote back.
Since then, he s been a fan a yuuuuge fan.
He has about 100 Trump signs in his yard and he wants to defeat lying Hillary and lying Obama.
Why does he like Trump?
He calls him honest, while Trump calls him a thug.
Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images.