Mark Levin dropped a bombshell on his show tonight about the Muslim terrorist who killed 9 people in Manhattan and injured dozens.
The Diversity VISA program was given the green light by none other than New York Democrat Senator Chuck Schumer... Mark Levin; NYC muslim terrorist came to US under Diversity VISA Program a bizarre lottery to shove more foreigners down our throats Deplorable MD (@MDDeplorable) October 31, 2017According to ABC 7:Authorities say he came to the United States seven years ago from Uzbekistan under what is called the Diversity Visa Program, which offers a lottery for people from countries with few immigrants in America.DIVERSITY LOTTERYOn May 1, 2017, the Washington Post wrote an article designed to criticize President Trump, as millions were concerned that this could be the last year of the Diversity Lottery .According to the Washington Post, the lottery s premise is simple.
Each year, the Diversity Visa Lottery, as it is officially known, provides up to 50,000 randomly selected foreigners fewer than 1 percent of those who enter the drawing with permanent residency in the United States.It s not connected to employment or family members in the United States.
The only requirement is that entrants be adults with a high school diploma or two years of work experience.
Winners can bring spouses and children.
Citizens of countries that have sent 50,000 people to the United States in the past five years such as Canada, China, India, Nigeria and Mexico are ineligible to participate.The current lottery coincides with an intense debate over immigration and comes amid policy changes that have made the country less welcoming to new arrivals.
President Trump has cracked down on illegal immigration and pressed forward with plans to build a wall along the border with Mexico.
He has issued executive orders targeting foreign workers, refugees and travelers from certain majority-Muslim countries.But he hasn t said a word about the green-card lottery.Its days may be numbered, nonetheless.
The lottery appears to conflict with the president s call for a merit-based immigration system.
And at least two bills in the Republican-controlled Congress seek to eliminate the program.
The Diversity Lottery is plagued with fraud, advances no economic or humanitarian interest, and does not even deliver the diversity of its namesake, according to a news release from Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.
), a co-sponsor of one of the bills.The program operated from a consular center in Williamsburg, Ky. has been on the chopping block before.
It came under attack in 2002 after an Egyptian terrorist who killed two people in Los Angeles was found to be in the United States through his wife s diversity visa.
Mohamed Atta, another Egyptian and one of the 9/11 suicide pilots, had entered the lottery twice before entering the United States on a different visa to study aviation.
If you re a terrorist organization and you can get a few hundred people to apply to this from several countries .
.
.
odds are you d get one or two of them picked, Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) told The Washington Post in 2011 after introducing an ill-fated bill to kill the program.State Department officials insist that lottery winners are vetted just as thoroughly as other potential immigrants to the United States.Here s how the Diversity Immigrant VISA program works:Twitter responded to the idiocy of the diversity visa program:Muslim terrorist slaughters 8 in NYC today.
Wait for it, wait for it here on a diversity visa.
Thank you, libtards Wayne's World (@WayneSense) November 1, 2017