The White House announced on Friday that it was confident the Russian government, hiding behind the anonymous Guccifer 2.0 moniker, has been unilaterally responsible for a series of breaches and leaks against the Democratic National Committee and other Democratic political entities for one reason to tilt the election in favor of Donald Trump.
The Obama Administration is asking state and local election officials to be vigilant and seek cybersecurity assistance, which most states have agreed to do.Without mentioning Trump by name, Jeh Johnson, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, said in a statement: These thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the U.S. election process.
Such activity is not new to Moscow the Russians have used similar tactics and techniques across Europe and Eurasia, for example, to influence public opinion there.We believe, based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts, that only Russia s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities.
It appears the truth is out Trump s newfound BFF and idol, Russian President Vladimir Putin, is in the hot seat, and his cronies will have to answer for their rigging of our election system.This confirmation comes several weeks after Democrats on the Senate and House Intelligence Committees have come to the same conclusion; that Russia is, indeed, behind the recent hackings.
Rep. Adam Schiff, who serves on the House Intelligence Committee, applauded the White House s response, and called on it to release their findings to the pubic: I applaud the administration s decision to publicly name Russia as the source of hacks into U.S. political institutions.
All of us should be gravely concerned when a foreign power like Russia seeks to undermine our democratic institutions, and we must do everything in our power to guard against it.
Congress knows it.
The White House knows it.
The media knows it.
The voters know it.
Russia is trying to influence this election and get their friend and ally Donald J. Trump elected.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images