Donald J. Trump spent a portion of his Sunday, presumably after church, lashing out at the world, including the FBI and its former Director James Comey.
In an unprecedented fashion, Trump blasted his own Intelligence agency as the worst in history and claimed that it was in tatters.
After years of Comey, with the phony and dishonest Clinton investigation (and more), running the FBI, its reputation is in Tatters worst in History!
President Exclamation Mark tweeted.
But fear not, we will bring it back to greatness.
After years of Comey, with the phony and dishonest Clinton investigation (and more), running the FBI, its reputation is in Tatters worst in History!
But fear not, we will bring it back to greatness.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2017We do not know why he capitalized history and tatters, though.Trump also attacked former FBI Director James Comey to call him a liar.
I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn, he tweeted.
Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!
I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn.
Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 3, 2017Trump sent out multiple tweets blasting his own agency, which resulted in FBI agencies firing back at his claims.It was just last year that Sarah Huckabee Sanders, now the White House press secretary, tweeted a response to Taegan Goddard, who wrote at the time, Deep antipathy to Hillary Clinton exists within the FBI, multiple bureau sources have told the Guardian, spurring a rapid series of leaks damaging to her campaign just days before the election.
When you re attacking FBI agents because you re under criminal investigation, you re losing, Sanders tweeted in 2016 just before the election.When you're attacking FBI agents because you're under criminal investigation, you're losing https://t.co/SIoAxatCjp Sarah Sanders (@SarahHuckabee) November 3, 2016Twitter users pounced.
that did age so well!!
Time to eat some crow, Sarah!
Kalani (@kalani159) December 4, 2017 pic.twitter.com/Vu50IDUB3m Carmine Davis (@Carmine761) December 4, 2017I don't think I've ever liked a @SarahHuckabee tweet before.
Backdoor Russian Overture (@BackdoorRussian) December 4, 2017I spit my coffee reading that and checked if it was the real account and then the date.
Their twitter remarks always come back to bite them!
Carmine Davis (@Carmine761) December 4, 2017They have lied themselves in to a complete circle.
pic.twitter.com/Ab8AMi0UxB GammyGroot (@capcara) December 4, 2017Trump told Russian officials in the Oval Office that firing nut job Comey eased pressure on him, according to the New York Times.
I just fired the head of the F.B.I.
He was crazy, a real nut job I faced great pressure because of Russia, he said in May.
That s taken off.
I m not under investigation.
The current occupant of the White House didn t just launch a war on U.S. Intelligence agencies, he launched a war on intelligence.
In 2016, Sanders defended the FBI over Hillary Clinton.
In 2017, she ll back up her boss s attack on the FBI because special counsel Robert Mueller is closing in on his administration.
Because, it s not Hillary Clinton who will be locked up, after all.Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images.