When alleged president Donald Trump doesn t like unfavorable coverage, then he calls it fake news.
The media is striking back, though, after his repeated attacks.
Trump is plagued with scandals after being on the job for just a few weeks.
To address his ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn s scandal, Trump said that the former aide was subjected to criminal leaks in the fake media.
I think he s been treated very, very unfairly by the media as I call it, the fake media, in many cases, Trump said at a joint press conference Wednesday with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
I think it s really a sad thing he was treated so badly.
Trump needs to get his story right with his team.
White House press secretary Sean Spicer said just yesterday that Trump demanded Flynn s resignation because of trust issues.Trump thinks the disgraced retired General is a swell guy:Trump called Flynn a wonderful man and doubled down on his condemnation of the leaks from the intelligence community that exposed Flynn misled senior officials in the White House about his conversations with Russia s ambassador.
Those conversations took place the day that then-President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia for its interference in the election.
From intelligence, papers are being leaked, things are being leaked, it s criminal action.
It s a criminal act, and it s been going on for a long time before me, but now it s really going on, Trump said.Watch: People are trying to cover up for a terrible loss that the Democrats had under Hillary Clinton, he added.He said the same thing on Twitter this morning.
He s blaming Hillary Clinton for his scandal-plagued administration.This Russian connection non-sense is merely an attempt to cover-up the many mistakes made in Hillary Clinton s losing campaign.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017This morning he lashed out about the leaks.
Funny thing about that: In 2016, Trump said, I love WikiLeaks!
And now in 2017, he hates leaks.The real scandal here is that classified information is illegally given out by intelligence like candy.
Very un-American!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017Then he sent out a mean-girl tweet about The New York Times and The Washington Post.Information is being illegally given to the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost by the intelligence community (NSA and FBI?
).Just like Russia Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 15, 2017The only questions from reporters Trump took during the press conference was from the Christian Broadcasting Network and the conservative website Townhall.Trump is afraid to answer questions about Russia.
He did manage to brag about his election win again, though.Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images.