During an interview on MSNBC s Hardball with Chris Mathews on Friday, Trump surrogate Jack Kingston claimed that Hillary Clinton was the person who started the birther movement.
Mathews did not hold back when he pressed Kingston on the accusation that is, frankly, as absurd as the claim the birther movement originally put forth.Already sounding a bit peeved at the assertion, Mathews asks Kingston, Where did you see this?
Kingston claims that he saw an inter-party email from 2008 that was put out by the Clinton campaign: From the Clinton campaign itself?
You ve seen this?
Kingston says that he has seen a copy of the e-mail.
No, you can t say Hillary Clinton is the mother of the birther movement and not have evidence, Mathews says.
You knew you were coming on the show, why didn t you bring it with you?
I may even have it my briefcase, Chris I don t know.
Mathews tells Kingston that the show is live and they have enough time for him to find it if it is.
This is a live show.
We ve got an hour.
Find it.
Congressman, dead serious, if you can find something from the Clinton campaign not some blogger out there but somebody who actually worked for Hillary Clinton under her direction who said that the president wasn t born in this country that would be news.
If you can produce it Now, of course, Kingston cannot produce any evidence because it is a lie.
Should such an e-mail exist, it wouldn t just be news, it would be a bombshell that would severely cripple the Democratic Party.
It probably would not convince many Democrats to start buying red hats and voting for Trump, though it would certainly make even her most die-hard supporters cringe.Kingston is merely trying to deflect from the fact that Trump still has not apologized for perpetuating the birther conspiracy theory.
The allegations that Trump put forth about President Obama during the early years of Obama s administration were Trump s first foray into the political spotlight.
His allegations were what built his base of radical right-wing conservatives.
He cannot apologize for fear of alienating that base of supporters.Trump would love for most of the world to forget that he ever was a birther.
We won t. It s important.
No matter how many surrogates Trump s campaign throws out there to try and change the narrative surrounding the controversy, we won t forget.You can watch the interview below:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ISJaqJt_VMFeatured image from video screenshot