Donald Trump apparently hopes poor people starve or freeze to death.In order to make way for a massive increase to our already bloated defense spending, Trump plans to gut just about any domestic program that benefits Americans, especially low-income Americans.While Trump s family lives in a gold-plated tower and can eat anything money can buy, he apparently is just fine with letting the rest of us live in squalor with little to eat and no heat for warmth.You see, Trump s budget includes massive cuts to Meals On Wheels, which provides millions of hungry senior citizens with healthy meals and a courtesy well-being check.But that well-being check will likely end up becoming a nightmare if Trump is able to eliminate heating assistance programs.Millions of Americans are too poor to heat their own homes, so the next time a Meals On Wheels volunteer tries to serve your grandma or grandpa a nice meal, you could end up getting a phone call informing you about how your beloved grandparents froze to death because they didn t get their heating assistance one particularly cold month next winter.Trump s budget would literally make life a living hell for poor Americans who are already struggling to take care of themselves and their families.
Trump supporters are especially going to feel the sting because they are the working poor in red states who rely the most on government aid.This budget is so bad that New York Times columnist Charles Blow referred to Trump as a damned MONSTER for proposing it.What kind of damned MONSTER proposes a budget like this?!!!
Eliminating low income heating assistance?!!!
So folks freeze?
#trumpbudget pic.twitter.com/dBzSFjsRpn Charles M. Blow (@CharlesMBlow) March 16, 2017Trump s budget is absolutely heartless and goes against the values that this country holds so dear.
The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have too little, Franklin D. Roosevelt once said.And Trump s budget guarantees that our progress fails miserably.
But Roosevelt also warned that a hungry nation is ripe for a dictatorship, and Trump is definitely a wannabe dictator who is trying to starve the people.
True individual freedom cannot exist without economic security and independence, Roosevelt said.
People who are hungry and out of a job are the stuff of which dictatorships are made.
Trump is not only waging a war against the poor, he is waging a war against democracy and the Constitution.Featured image via Jim Lo Scalzo Pool/Getty Image