You d think she d know a thing or two about email servers and at a minimum, question Hillary s integrity Apple founder Steve Jobs widow Laurene has told of her admiration for Democratic White House front-runner Hillary Clinton.Ms Jobs, 51, called former First Lady Hillary a revolutionary woman, and added that it s not just because she s a woman but the type of woman she is .Speaking to Time 100, Ms Jobs said: Hillary Clinton is not familiar.
She is revolutionary.
Not radical, but revolutionary: The distinction is crucial.
She is one of America s greatest modern creations.
Her decades in our public life must not blind us to the fact that she represents new realities and possibilities.
Indeed, those same decades have conferred upon her what newness usually lacks: judgment, and even wisdom.
Oops wrong picture!
It matters, of course, that Hillary is a woman.
But what matters more is what kind of woman she is.
Mrs Clinton announced her intention to seek the Democratic nomination on Sunday and set upon the campaign trail with a trip to meet ordinary voters in Iowa.But she was blasted for her staged visit on Tuesday morning to a coffee shop in LeClaire, Iowa.Austin Bird, one of the men pictured sitting at the table with Mrs Clinton, claimed the whole event was orchestrated from beginning to end .Bird told Daily Mail Online that campaign staffer Troy Price called and asked him and two other young people to meet him Tuesday morning at a restaurant in Davenport, a nearby city.
Price then drove them to the coffee house to meet Clinton after vetting them for about a half-hour.The three got the lion s share of Mrs. Clinton s time and participated in what breathless news reports described as a roundtable the first of many in her brief Iowa campaign swing.
Bird himself is a frequent participant in Iowa Democratic Party events.
He interned with President Obama s 2012 presidential re-election campaign, and was tapped to chauffeur Vice President Joe Biden in October 2014 when he visited Davenport.
What happened is, we were just asked to be there by Troy, Bird said Wednesday in a phone interview.
We were asked to come to a meeting with Troy, the three of us, at the Village Inn.
The other two, he confirmed, were University of Iowa College Democrats president Carter Bell and Planned Parenthood of the Heartland employee Sara Sedlacek.
It was supposed to be a strategy meeting, Bird recalled, to get our thoughts about issues.
But then all of a sudden he says, Hey, we have Secretary Clinton coming in, would you like to go meet her?
And then we got in a car Troy s car and we went up to the coffee house, and we sat at a table and then Hillary just came up and talked with us.
Bird said we all were called.
I mean, Troy asked us all to do to go to a meeting with him.
And we didn t really know what it was about.
I mean, he did.
He knew.
Via: UK Daily Mail