As Election Day continues to get closer on the calendar, some conservatives are already threatening to commit acts of violence if Hillary Clinton beats Donald Trump.In fact, conservatives, including Trump, have been laying the groundwork for months now to invalidate the election results in the event Donald Trump loses.The Republican nominee went to Pennsylvania in August and declared that the only way he can possibly lose Pennsylvania is if Hillary Clinton cheats to win the state.
Ever since then, Trump s campaign and the Republicans that support him have been claiming that Clinton will somehow steak the election via election fraud, which suggests Trump and his conservative backers will refuse to gracefully accept defeat on Election Day and could go so far as to make threats and commit acts of violence in order to prevent Hillary from taking over as Commander-in-Chief.And such a move by conservatives would not only be unprecedented in the entire history of our nation, it would also be treason.Historian Dr. Ronald Feinman explained in an article published by History News Network that in all of our history, no losing presidential candidate has ever not accepted defeat in the wake of losing an election.
There has never been a threat of a losing candidate refusing to accept the victory of his opponent, even in the midst of an oncoming Civil War, or in the midst of the Great Depression, or during the tensions of the Cold War years, Feinman wrote.There is absolutely no excuse or justification for even a perceived possibility that Donald Trump might cause a major threat to civil order by encouraging his supporters to refuse to accept his defeat.
Yet, we have some Republicans, including Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin seemingly setting the stage for possible civil disobedience and even violence based on the argument that Bill and Hillary Clinton are totally corrupt, and that no victory by Hillary Clinton would be valid.
It is truly terrifying to think of the possible threat to the new President and Vice President by crazed supporters who use Trump s vehement opposition and potential rejection of the results as an excuse for bloodshed and violence, including a possible threat to the health, safety, and lives of Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine.During the Values Voter Summit last month, Bevin called for bloody rebellion if Hillary Clinton wins in November.
Somebody asked me yesterday, I did an interview and they said, Do you think it s possible, if Hillary Clinton were to win the election, do you think it s possible that we ll be able to survive?
That we would ever be able to recover as a nation?
And while there are people who have stood on this stage and said we would not, I would beg to differ.
But I will tell you this: I do think it would be possible, but at what price?
At what price?
The roots of the tree of liberty are watered by what?
The blood, of who?
The tyrants to be sure, but who else?
The patriots.
Whose blood will be shed?
It may be that of those in this room.
It might be that of our children and grandchildren.
I have nine children.
It breaks my heart to think that it might be their blood that is needed to redeem something, to reclaim something, that we through our apathy and our indifference have given away.
Donald Trump has also suggested that Second Amendment people could do something to stop Hillary Clinton.This suggests that Trump and conservatives are planning to contest any election result that is not in their favor and are planning to cause chaos and commit violence if they don t get their way.
This should be seen as a treasonable act, were it to occur, requiring the arrest, trial and incarceration of any Trump supporters, including the candidate himself, who represent a threat to constitutional order and American democracy, Feinman continued.
Donald Trump would go down in history ever worse than his reputation has already been sullied by his actions and statements promoting division and chaos in America, and undermining its ability to protect national security.
Being a sore loser who advocates or endorses violence and bloodshed would put him into a class with people such as Benedict Arnold and Aaron Burr as traitors to the nation.
Indeed, Trump and conservatives would be undermining our democracy and our tradition of peaceful transfers of political power which is why Americans must defeat Donald Trump by a landslide on November 8th in order to send a clear message to Trump and conservatives that their agenda is rejected and their behavior is totally unacceptable.Featured Image: Flickr