Everyone knows that Republican front runner Donald Trump s Twitter account is filled with nonsense and an absolute nightmare for any level-headed American.
Trump has successfully funneled all of that bigotry and offensive rhetoric to his Instagram account, as the business mogul has just posted a completely baffling ad meant to insult Hillary Clinton while nearly destroying his friendly relationship with Russian president Vladimir Putin.Trump has previously spoken positively about Putin and defended the Russian leader several times, which won him Putin s support for presidency.
But in the ad, it doesn t seem like Trump likes Putin at all it even seems like he s trying to destroy their mutually respectful bond.
In the video, Putin performs MMA-style combat moves for a few seconds before a clip of an ISIS soldier pointing a gun at the camera is shown.
The text reads: When it comes to facing our toughest opponents, the Democrats have the perfect answer And right as the text disappears, Trump goes after Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton by showing a clip where Clinton is barking which is ironic since Clinton was actually doing this to mock Republicans for not being able to fight our toughest opponents.
This footage of Clinton is from a campaign rally in February, and happened after telling a story about an old campaign ad that made a dog bark whenever someone lied.
Clinton was implying that the GOP candidates were lying through their teeth about several of their claims.
Having this clip in Trump s ad is completely out of context, and makes it even more confusing.After the footage of Clinton barking, the video cuts to some really uncomfortable footage of Putin giggling creepily.
The last line in the ad reads, We don t need to be a punch line!
The ad is about 15 long seconds that make absolutely no sense just like Trump himself.Is this what we want for a President?A video posted by Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on Mar 16, 2016 at 9:15am PDTFor someone who doesn t want America to become a punchline, Trump has done an amazing job making our politics look like a joke.
Unfortunately, this video is getting tons of positive attention from Trump s 1.2 million Instagram followers.
Since being posted this afternoon, it has already received over 22,000 likes and thousands of comments.Trump has previously railed against Clinton for imitating a dog.
During a South Carolina rally, Trump criticized the former Secretary of State, stating that the press would bury him if he acted the same way.
He said, If I ever did that, I would be ridiculed all over the place.
I won t do it.
I m not going to imitate her.
However, we all know that Trump has done far worse.Given that Trump has a history of misogyny and attacks on women, this strange anti-Clinton ad is nothing new.
And it makes about just as much sense as he does.
Featured image via Evan Guest / Flickr