On Friday, The Daily Show did a segment on the Flint Water crisis.
During the segment, host Trevor Noah began the segment by offering this bit of advice, I have a very simple rule in rule If the water s brown than me, I don t drink it.
In April 2014, Flint s emergency manager forced the city to switch from using Detroit s water system to using the Flint River for water.
The decision to do so was touted as a means to cut costs for the city.
It turned out to be a disaster.
There is an unusual amount of salt in the Flint River.
The river is also extremely contaminated.
So when the salt began to corrode the pipes of Flint s water system, lead leaked into people s drinking water.
One study found the pipe corrosion problem could have been solved for as little as $100 a day.
Now it is estimated that it will cost up to $1.5 billion dollars to fix Flint s water system.Noah noticed that the problem with Flint s water is so bad, that it reminded him of the ads that charities run, that try to raise money for people in Africa.
A hundred dollars a day?
Why didn t you say something?
I want to call out to all my people in Africa right now watching The Daily Show.
Because my friends: for only a hundred dollars a day, we can save a village in America and get these people drinking the water that they so badly need.
There has been massive outcry over the water system transition since day one.
When evidence was shown that Flint s water had become contaminated, Snyder and the emergency manager choose not to act.
That s why Snyder is currently being investigated by the EPA.Republican policies have officially destroyed an entire city s water infrastructure, making Flint resemble a third world nation when it comes to infrastructure.
For so called fiscal conservatives the policies that led to the Flint water crisis are born out of the same values that most Republicans hold dear.
Cut spending, at all costs.
It doesn t matter if any entire city is poisoned.
In their view, a pound of cure is worth more than an ounce of prevention.You can watch the segment below, in full.The Daily Show with Trevor Noah Get More: The Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,The Daily Show Video ArchiveFeatured Image Credit: Screenshot via Comedy Central