Donald Trump, besides being a classic narcissist, also exhibits classic projection behavior.
Nearly everything that s been coming out of his mouth lately regarding Hillary Clinton is exactly what has been said about him.
It s as if he doesn t think anyone will notice, and likely his imbecilic supporters won t.Now, in a move that is bizarre to most sane-minded individuals, Trump is trying to paint Hillary Clinton as a racist.
You know, the woman with 90+% of the African-American vote locked up.Why does Hillary have such widespread support from the black community?
Because she s worked her whole career to make life better for them.
It s not rocket science.Well, it s that and the fact that Donald Trump, quite literally, is racist and is supported by white nationalists everywhere.Trump has been pandering to the black and Latino vote at almost every recent rally.
It s obvious, pathetic, and kind of insulting to people s intelligence.
Something he doesn t have to worry about among his pack of lemmings.So, when Hillary delivered a speech in Reno, Nevada highlighting how very racist Trump is with his incendiary remarks, and there s evidence to back it up with how he s treated the Latino community, and how he refused to rent property to African-Americans back in the 70s, his quick reaction was to say Hillary is actually the racist one.How did he deliver this reaction?
Via his favorite medium of choice Twitter, of course.Directly after a tweet pandering to the African-American community that read, So many in the African-American community are doing so badly, poverty and crime way up, employment and jobs way down: I will fix it, promise which assumes all black people live in poverty, Trump tweets out his reaction to Hillary slamming him.Just watched recap of #CrookedHillary's speech.
Very short and lies.
She is the only one fear-mongering!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 25, 2016Hillary Clinton's short speech is pandering to the worst instincts in our society.
She should be ashamed of herself!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 25, 2016Hillary Clinton is using race-baiting to try to get African-American voters- but they know she is all talk and NO ACTION!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 25, 2016Take some time to really absorb that.
He s literally saying what everyone is saying about him.
He s proving to the world that he knows he s a racist, but thinks if he can say I know you are, but what am I no one will notice.The American people aren t that stupid, Donald, and we will make sure you get nowhere near the Oval Office come November at the voting booth.Featured Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images