The world is reeling today as Britain just made the shocking decision to leave the European Union (EU).
Yes, Americans and others around the world should care about this decision, as it affects us all.
The world economy is already feeling the effects of it, and this vote could even have effects on the upcoming elections here in the States.
Well, one person who really should keep her mouth shut on this and other world affairs has nevertheless weighed in: Sarah Palin.Palin showed her ignorance of foreign affairs during her infamously embarrassing run for the Vice President in 2008, so it should be no surprise that her response to Brexit is absolutely batshit insane.
Palin posted to her Facebook (emphasis mine):When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another The UK knew it was that time.
And now is that time in the USA.The Brexit referendum is akin to our own Declaration of Independence.
May that refreshed spirit of sovereignty spread over the pond to America s shores!Congratulations, smart Brits.
Good on you for ignoring all the fear mongering from special interest globalists who tend to aim for that apocalyptic One World Government that dissolves a nation s self-determination and sovereignty the EU being a One World Government mini-me.America can learn an encouraging lesson from this.It is time to dissolve political bands that connect us to agendas not in our best interest.
May UN shackles be next on the chopping block.
Sarah PalinThe thing is, the people who voted in favor of Brexit didn t ignore the fear mongering.
Quite the opposite in fact they fell for it.
They fell for squeals of nationalism, and taking their country back from the immigrants (one of the main parts of being a member of the EU is being able to travel freely across borders to other EU countries without Visas being required).
You know, the same kind of right-wing fear mongering that we see here in America from conspiracy theorists warning that people like President Obama and Hillary Clinton are looking to build some kind of New World Order.
Or something.This woman really needs to just be quiet.
She s not a politician anymore, and she never should have been one in the first place.
Go back under your bridge where you belong, Sarah, and let the grown-ups talk public policy.
You re clearly not qualified to do so.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images