Remember, this is the same guy who has been going around calling Iran one of our greatest enemies, it turns out he seemed to have no problem aiding one of their biggest banks that also happens to be linked to terrorism.Recent reports reveal that Donald Trump was being paid half a million dollars in yearly rent between 1998 and 2003 by Bank Melli.
The Iranian bank that not only aided Iran in obtaining materials for their nuclear program but also funneled $100 million to the Quds Force unit of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, which supports acts of terrorism.Accepting rent payments from this bank may have violated the U.S. embargo that had been slapped on Iran at the time, which means Donald Trump is a serial violator of embargoes placed on enemy nations.Just last week, Trump was outed by Newsweek for violating the Cuban embargo in 1998, which is the same year he bought the General Motors Building in Manhattan and began accepting rent payments from the Iranian bank.Former State Department official Richard Nephew, who helped both President Bush and President Obama hit Iran with sanctions has a big problem with Trump renting office space to an Iranian bank that helps fund act of terrorism.
It s a pretty hypocritical position to take, he said.
It suggests that his principles are pretty flexible when it comes to him getting paid.
Should someone in America have known better than to do business with Iran?
Yeah.
Indeed, Donald Trump has been a hardliner when it comes to Iran, but apparently that is only when it comes to the campaign trail.
In reality, Trump doesn t mind working with dictators or dirty banks linked to terrorism as long as he can line his pockets.This should seriously be enough to end Trump s quest for the presidency.
Clearly, he is only running to help himself.
As Nephew said, Trump could easily choose money over principles when it comes to negotiating with hostile foreign nations.
That s dangerous for our security and our reputation around the world.
When Donald Trump says he can negotiate better deals with Russia, Iran, and China, he only means that he can negotiate better deals for himself and his own piggy bank.
The last thing this country needs is a president who can be bought by our enemies.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images