A little over a month ago, Linda Sorenson, the Republican Chair for Delta County, Colorado, posted the following Facebook meme:Oh those wacky Republicans and their unbelievable racism!At first, Sorenson was defiant in the face of public condemnation, stating, I really don t care if people are offended by it, she told me of the post, which was sent to me by a source.
Un-friend me.
Stop looking at me on Facebook.
After all, this is a new day in America.
This is Donald Trump s America and gosh darn it!
White people won t stand for being oppressed by the PC Police any longer!
Let freedumb ring!But a funny thing about Trump s America it doesn t actually exist.
At least not yet.
And certainly not in the very purple state of Colorado.
Clearly, Sorenson thought the people would rally to her bigoted side.
Instead, according to the The Daily Sentinel:That posting not only prompted calls of her resignation from fellow Delta County Republicans, but also from several outside groups, including the Colorado branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Greater Metro Denver Ministerial Alliance.Whoops.In the face of all of this pressure, Sorenson changed her story from, I m racist and I m proud!
to the perennial favorite of politicians who make a social media blunder: Someone hacked my account!
I m the victim here!
After four accountability meetings though, including an investigation into Sorenson violating party rules by endorsing a local Republican primary candidate, Sorenson saw the writing on the Facebook wall and resigned.
The Republicans Central Committee was quick to distance themselves:Suppes, who is not a member of the central committee, said it was an appropriate move.
There s no room for racism, intended or unintended, in society, he said.
It s best for the party, best for the county, that she step down.
On the one hand, bravo to the Colorado GOP for dealing with this appropriately.
On the other, Sorenson is hardly an outlier.
Republicans have spent decades turning their party into a haven for racism and bigotry in all its many forms.
Sorenson was simply stupid enough to say it out loud; a trend that has been exacerbated, but certainly not started, by Donald Trump.I wonder who she ll blame for her downfall?
I m going to guess Obama.
What do you think?Featured image via screencap