The unthinkable has happened, and we are now all forced to live under a Donald Trump administration for the next four years.
This is especially terrifying to minorities, since the man that was just declared our next president is a racist, misogynistic, xenophobic bigot, and his vice president-elect, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, is just as bad only much more quietly.
Well, there is one person in the United States Senate who won t stand for any of that bigotry when it comes to lawmaking: Bernie Sanders.While Bernie has promised to work with a Trump administration where they can find common ground, he has already warned Trump that there will be no funny business on his watch when it comes to going after minorities.
Bernie tweeted:If Donald Trump takes people's anger and turns it against Muslims, Hispanics, African Americans and women, we will be his worst nightmare.
Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) November 10, 2016This isn t the first time since Trump s victory that Bernie has warned him against aggressively attacking the rights of minorities, either.
On Wednesday, he said: To the degree that Mr. Trump is serious about pursuing policies that improve the lives of working families in this country, I and other progressives are prepared to work with him, the Vermont senator said in a statement released Wednesday.
To the degree that he pursues racist, sexist, xenophobic and anti-environment policies, we will vigorously oppose him.
This is reassuring, because while the situation is certainly dismal, there are Democrats and Independents in the Senate who still have enough seats to block the Republicans and a Trump Administration from appointing anti-LGBTQ, anti-women, anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant justices to the Supreme Court.
While this might, optics wise, looks like Democrats offering retribution for the GOP s refusal to give President Obama s appointee, Merrick Garland, a hearing and a vote, indeed it is not.
It is a way to keep Republicans from stripping the basic human rights from groups of Americans they hate.Thank you, Bernie, for having our back.
Let s hope that you and Senate Democrats are successful in protecting us for the next four years as we live out this literal nightmare.Featured image via Joshua Lott/Getty Images