Despite the fact that House Speaker Paul Ryan continues to insist that he s still backing Trump, it couldn t be clearer that he is extremely uncomfortable with the prospect of a President Trump.
The two disagree on many things, including Trump s ridiculous idea that he could, without the help of Congress, ban Muslims from the United States.
Since the shooting in Orlando, Trump has doubled down on that insanity, and it s clear that Speaker Ryan has had enough.Ryan sat down on Thursday with The Huffington Post, and when asked about what he d do if Trump tried to pull that sh*t once he was elected, Ryan said: I would sue any president that exceeds his or her powers.
He went on to make sure people understood that his endorsing Trump did not mean that he had given the orange one a blank check to do as he pleases.Think about that.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives the guy who is presiding over the GOP convention just floated the idea of suing his own nominee.
This is the GOP imploding right before our eyes, folks.
For real.
Ryan went on to say: That s a legal question that there s a good debate about.
On the broader question, are we going to exert our Article I powers and reclaim this Article I power no matter who the president is?
Absolutely.
After effectively saying that he d sue Trump if it came down to it, Ryan turned right around and reminded everyone what a spineless weasel he is, and insisted that Trump is still his man: I am going to keep being who I am, I am going to keep speaking out on things where I think it s needed, where our principles need to be defended, and I am going to keep doing that, I hope it s not necessary.
But the last thing I want to see is a another Democrat in the White House.
So, despite the fact that Trump continues to demonstrate how bashit insane not to mention grossly unqualified he is, Paul Ryan still would rather see Trump burn the world down than have to deal with another Democratic president.
Not surprising, really.Watch the full interview below:Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images