Potty Mouth Perez is at it again with his hate and vulgarity.
He s repeatedly gone low when it comes to President Trump.
His manner of speaking is so crude and hateful that it s pretty shocking to hear his speeches.
We ve reported on them before and have spoken about how Perez is a former La Raza guy who is a radical from a way back.
He fights dirty and is one of Obama s minions.
If this is the direction the Democrats are going in It s pretty ugly.
OUSTING ACTIVISTS Trying to quell accusations that he is ousting activists from the party s left flank, Democratic Chairman Tom Perez told fellow Democrats on Saturday that unity is crucial in the fight against President Donald Trump, whom he lambasted as an existential threat to the nation.
MOST DANGEROUS We have the most dangerous president in American history and one of the most reactionary Congresses in American history, BERNIE SUPPORTERS OUSTED FROM PARTY LEADERSHIPPerez said as he addressed the first Democratic National Committee gathering since his February election.
The former Obama Cabinet official blistered a culture of corruption that he said extends to Trump s Cabinet, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, but he warned that internal ruckuses over party priorities and leadership would distract from the goal of winning more elections to upend Republicans domination in Washington.Those who have been pushed out include:Ray Buckley, the New Hampshire Democratic chairman and longtime DNC official who ran against Perez for chair before backing Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn. Buckley lost his spots on the Executive Committee and DNC Rules Committee.James Zogby, the president of the Arab American Institute and prominent Sanders backer, is no longer co-chair of the Resolutions Committee and is off the Executive Committee, a spot he has held since 2001.Alice Germond, the party s longtime former secretary and a vocal Ellison backer, who was removed from her at-large appointment to the DNC.Barbra Casbar Siperstein, who supported Ellison and Buckley, was tossed from the Executive Committee.POTTY MOUTH PEREZ If someone ever asks you which wing of the party you belong to, tell em you belong to the accomplishment wing of the Democratic Party, he said, because you re trying to get s done.
That s what we re trying to do here, folks.
We re trying to move the ball forward.
ERIC HOLDER ON THE SCENEEric Holder has been making comments and appearances recently raising questions about what he s up to.
He has bashed President Trump on Twitter and is now involved with the Democrat Party and voting rights.
The left claims that Republicans used gerrymandering to win states He goes way back with victimhood he s always a victim.
He s another one who is a radical from way back.It looks like the Democrats are pulling out all the stops to win elections.
If they only focused on policy and not constant hateful rhetoric pitiful Read more: Daily Mail