The Women s March on Washington started out smaller, but now it s set to be one of the biggest protests in American history.
The protest started out with tens of thousands of women expected to march, but then it went viral.
Now men are joining the demonstration as well.
Hundreds of thousands of protesters are expected to show up the day after Donald Trump is sworn in.
In addition, more than 50 Democratic lawmakers are skipping the Inauguration.
After Trump attacked Rep. John Lewis on Twitter, the number of lawmakers expected to opt out of attending rose from thirty to 56.In an interview with CNN s Chris Cuomo, the vice-president of Trump s transition team used odd wording on Tuesday to prompt Democrats to attend the Inauguration.Rep.
Sean Duffy (R-WI) said that Democrats need to put on their big boy pants and attend Friday s inauguration.Yeah, sure, that ll make them go.Duffy then blasted the Democratic lawmakers who say they will not attend Trump s big event.
I was not thrilled, it was a very depressing day in 2008 and 2012 in the Duffy household when President Obama won reelection, Duffy said.
We fought hard for the Republican candidate.
We weren t happy.
But guess what?
We go to the inauguration, maybe with a heavy heart, but it s part of this American process that Republicans and Democrats come together as one America.
While whining about the Inauguration, Duffy compared Democrats to children:Duffy compared the Democrats who are participating in the boycott to children who are used to getting a juice box and a trophy even when they lose.
Listen, Donald Trump won, he said.
You may not agree with his agenda just like we didn t agree with President Obama s agenda.
But show up!
That s your duty as a Republican congressman.
Be part of the process.
Duffy said that Republicans may not attend the next Democratic president s inauguration.
Because what this does is, in the future, what happens with the next Democrat [sic] presidential election are Republicans supposed to say that we re going to stay home, that these events become partisan in nature?
he remarked.
That s bad for the country.
Show up, be part of it.
Put your big boy pants on and let s start working together.
Watch:Poor Sean.
It s got to suck that Trump is the least popular president-elect in modern history.
Meanwhile, President Obama will leave the office as the most successful Democratic president since Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Obama s approval rating is soaring while Trump s is plunging.Trump has the worst approval rating in modern history while entering office.Featured image via screen capture