It s time to start arresting Trump supporters for this bullshit.Ernest Walker is a proud veteran who served this country with the 25th Infantry Division in the 1980s.
So he went to Chili s on Veteran s Day for a free meal the restaurant chain offered to veterans as thanks for their service.But while he was eating, a rude Trump supporter confronted him and questioned his military service despite the fact that he was in uniform and had his discharge papers as proof that he served.But because Walker is a black man, this emboldened racist decided to cause trouble.
I was approached by an old white guy, maybe in his 70s, with a Trump Shirt, at Chili s on Veteran s Day yesterday, Walker explained on Facebook.
He asked if I was in the 24th unit, and I said no the 25th .
TRICK QUESTION.
He said he was in Germany, and that they did not let Blacks serve over there.
He left to the back, and came back and rubbed my dog Barack, who is a service dog.
First of all, it s incredibly disrespectful to question a person s service to this country just because of the color of their skin.
Second, it s disrespectful to touch a disabled person s service animal.
It s a dick move.But this Trump supporter took the extra step of going to the restaurant manager and told him that Walker was faking his veteran creds and said the service animal is fake, too.The manager, identified by Walker as Wesley Patrick, interrogated Walker and then took his food away from him even though Walker once again showed proof of his military service.
I was seated and eating my food.
The waitress packed the rest of my food in a to go box because I had to go pick up my wife.
I got my food and tipped the waitress.
Then the Manager, MR. Wesley Patrick, comes from the same area in the back, walked up, and rudly informs me that a guest said that I was not a real soldier because I had my hat on indoors.
Other guests heard him.
He asked for my military ID, I was calm, and provided it to him.
I also provided him with my DD214 which is my discharge paperwork.
At that point he should have just said I am sorry Sir, thank you for your service Instead he followed up with the guest also said your dog is not a service dog.
Barack had his Red Service Vest on, and his Certified Service Tags.
I was sitting for 35 minutes prior with Barack beforehand.
At this point I was grossly offended embarrassed dehumanized and started Recording Mr. Wesley snatched my food away, made body contact.
And because Patrick took the word of a racist over the evidence Walker should have never had to present but did so anyway, he is now out of a job and Chili s has issued a formal apology.
On a day where we served more than 200,000 free meals as a small gesture of our appreciation for our veterans and active military for their service, we fell short, said Chili s president Kelli Valade.This kind of behavior by Trump supporters has become an epidemic in this country ever since Donald Trump won on Election Day.
Hundreds of incidents of violence, threats, defacing of property, racism, and sexism have been reported across the nation and people are terrified.These Trump supporters need to be arrested and a strong message needs to be sent that this behavior won t be tolerated.Featured Image: Facebook