One month ago, CNN political analyst and American Urban Radio Networks White House correspondent April Ryan took to Twitter, and without any evidence, suggested that White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders didn t actually bake the Thanksgiving Day pecan pie she posted on Twitter.Here s the tweet from Sanders showing the pie she baked with the message: I dont cook much these days, but managed this Chocolate Pecan Pie for Thanksgiving at the family farm!
I dont cook much these days, but managed this Chocolate Pecan Pie for Thanksgiving at the family farm!
pic.twitter.com/rO8nFxtly7 Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) November 23, 2017Ryan responded by actually demanding that Sanders do more than post a picture of the pie with a white background, and that she show Twitter users the pie on her table!Show it to us on a table.
https://t.co/ifeSBlSZW7 AprilDRyan (@AprilDRyan) November 24, 2017Ryan then took it a step further and doubled down, letting her Twitter users know that the legitimacy of Sanders claim that she baked the pecan pie was no laughing matter.I am not trying to be funny but folks are already saying #piegate and #fakepie Show it to us on the table with folks eating it and a pic of you cooking it.
I am getting the biggest laugh out of this.
I am thankful for this laugh on Black Friday!
https://t.co/ifeSBlSZW7 AprilDRyan (@AprilDRyan) November 24, 2017Never one to let the bad behavior of a leftist member of the media sharks go unnoticed, Sarah Sanders decided to share a step-by-step pictorial of her Christmas pecan pies for the petty CNN reporter April Ryan.
Sanders tweeted directly to April Ryan this time, asking Ryan for her opinion on how to best prepare her pie: It s pie time!
With or without bourbon @AprilDRyan?
#piegate It s pie time!
With or without bourbon @AprilDRyan?
#piegate pic.twitter.com/2xw58FDFg6 Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) December 14, 2017Sanders then thanked VP Chief of Staff Nick Ayers for supplying the pecans from his family farm in Georgia:Thanks to @VP Chief of Staff @Nick_Ayers for supplying the pecans from his family farm in Georgia #piegate pic.twitter.com/Lx7LpMwF4V Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) December 14, 2017Sanders even offered to provide CNN s April Ryan with further documentation if she needed further proof to verify the authenticity of her homemade pecan pies:Ingredients all mixed up and pies in the oven!
@AprilDRyan let me know if you need further documentation #piegate pic.twitter.com/OVYLg1gBgO Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) December 14, 2017Finally, Sanders ended her series of tweets with a zinger: Excited to share these at tomorrow s press potluck.
Merry Christmas to the WH press corps!
Excited to share these at tomorrow s press potluck.
Merry Christmas to the WH press corps!
pic.twitter.com/PKqfHk3nXJ Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) December 14, 2017Could there be a classier or wittier person than Sarah Huckabee Sanders, when it comes to dealing with our rabid, Trump-hating, leftist media?