The New York Times reported that foreign leaders in Israel, Saudi Arabia, and the Vatican were told to praise Trump for his electoral college victory if they want him to listen to what they have to say.
Sources told the Times that overseas leaders were briefed on how to handle Trump, making sure to take into account his huge ego and fragile feelings.
They were told point-blank to give Trump compliments and praise, and not to expect him to attend long meetings.Peter Westmacott, a former British ambassador to the United States during President Obama s second term, gave reporters his take on the preparatory process with foreign leaders.In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016Westmacott told reporters, If you were prepping people for Donald Trump, the two or three points would be one, bear in mind this is still a guy who focuses on wins.
Secondly, he is a deal maker, a pragmatist.
Third, this is a guy with a limited attention span.
He absolutely won t listen to visitors droning on for a half-hour or longer if they need an interpreter.
How pathetic that NATO leaders are told to keep meetings w/Trump brief due to his short attention span!
Embarrassing that he represents us!
Grandmago (@pellett48) May 18, 2017Trump was also prepped for the trip ahead of time.
Aides say they withheld slides showing pictures of the Saudi Arabian king s luxurious weekend palace out of fear of distracting the president.
The powerpoint presentation that President Trump received was also shortened, in order to make sure he paid attention.Reportedly, even with all of the hand-holding and special treatment he was set to receive from foreign leaders, President Trump sought to shorten his overseas trip from nine days down to just five.
Sources say that Trump expressed dread over the length of the trip.The President of the United States curtseyed to a Saudi king and then needed a nap.
Bess Kalb (@bessbell) May 22, 2017His first overseas trip marks the longest amount of time that Trump has gone without visiting one of his properties in the four months since he s been president.
Photo by Joe Raedle via Getty Images.