In June of 2017, it was reported that the newly-crowned NBA champions the Golden State Warriors were preparing a political statement by refusing an invitation to the White House to visit President Donald Trump.The Oakland-based basketball team, led by head coach Steve Kerr, decided immediately after Trump s election on November 9 that it would shun the new president if it won the NBA championship, according to Comcast SportsNet.Golden State Warrior player Kevin Durant bragged about not visiting President Donald Trump at the White House if the NBA champion Golden State Warriors are invited.
Nah, I won t do that, said Durant, the 2017 NBA Finals MVP.
I don t respect who s in office right now.
Yesterday, Stephen Curry bragged about not visiting the White House.
Stephen Curry doesn't hold back on whether he'll vote to visit White House.
pic.twitter.com/n2PBAtYQdA Chris Haynes (@ChrisBHaynes) September 22, 2017Today, President Trump who is clearly sick and tired of all of these overpaid athletes spewing a completely bogus narrative about him being a racist or supporting racism, shot back and rescinded Stephen Curry s invitation to the White House.
In his tweet, President Trump reminding Curry that it s a privilege to be invited to celebrate their victory with the President.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017President Trump should have also reminded the petulant Stephen Curry that there s a high likelihood most of his fans couldn t care less about his political opinions, and that whining to the media about not wanting to go visit the President (who was elected by the majority of Americans) at the White House will probably not help his brand for future marketing gigs.If Americans are fed up with professional sports turning into political arenas, they can start by turning off so-called Sports networks like Disney owned ESPN, whose hosts are nothing more than political hacks promoting the hate and giving these overpaid athletes political views more attention than they deserve.
Americans need to start turning off programs with controversial, race-obsessed hosts like Chris Hayes (who tweeted Curry s statement) and Trump-hating Jemele Hill who are more concerned about starting a race war in America than discussing sports.