Ben Carson just got a reality check he really didn t like by fellow conservative Bill O Reilly!On Monday night s edition of The O Reilly Factor, the host delivered the hard, soul-crushing facts to the Republican presidential candidate about how improbable it was that he would win the GOP nomination.
Basically, O Reilly told Carson it would take a miracle.
Even after an embarrassing loss in the South Carolina primary on Saturday, Carson couldn t come to terms that his campaign was over.
He not only told his supporters that he had just as many delegates as the other candidates (aside from the winner, of course), but continued to keep up this act with O Reilly.While trying to convince O Reilly (and possibly himself) that with just one more point he would have come in third, O Reilly got fed up with Carson s denial tactics and decided to give him the cold, hard truth.
He said: You know me, I m a fairly straight forward guy.
It would take a miracle for not only you but John Kasich, at this point, with the delegate situation being what it is, to overcome Trump.
While O Reilly still felt there might be hope that Sens.
Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) could give Trump a run for his money, O Reilly said to Carson, But for you.
Very difficult.
It was like O Reilly was speaking to a wall, because Carson continued to believe a lot of things can happen and that with only five GOP candidates now, he could be more successful when America focuses on the issues over personalities.
O Reilly kept taking Carson off cloud nine and putting him back into reality, where it was becoming clear that Carson should soon be dropping out of the presidential race.
Noting that March 1st was a crucial date for Carson, O Reilly said: You know, doc, I gotta tell ya, I just don t think you re gonna do it.
It s not you.
It s history.
It s almost like Governor Bush in a sense that it was just the wrong time for Governor Bush up against the colossus.
Carson reluctantly agreed with O Reilly, but mentioned that Bill Clinton didn t emerge as a success until after the sixth contest and O Reilly shut him down once again.
It became clear that O Reilly already thinks Carson s campaign is over when he asked Carson who he d be endorsing after he drops out.
Carson didn t have an answer, and probably isn t ready to accept defeat, but it s clear that he should start thinking about it.You can watch O Reilly break Carson s heart below: Featured image via video screen capture