At an addiction policy forum in in New Hampshire, Republican Senator and presidential contender Ted Cruz discussed the awful consequences of drug addiction by highlighting his sister s overdose in 2011.
The conversation then turned into a political rant against undocumented illegal immigrants with Cruz calling them undocumented democrats.
He blamed the media, Hollywood, and specifically Sean Penn for glorifying drugs and drug dealers, calling for a wall to be built between the U.S. and Mexico.
Referring to Penn s recent interview with drug kingpin Joaquin Guzman, also known as El Chapo, Cruz said: El Chapo.
You know, Sean Penn seems to think he is a sexy and attractive character.
I so appreciate Hollywood for glorifying vicious homicidal killers.
What a cute and chic thing to celebrate.
Someone who murders and destroys lives for a living.
El Chapo s organization brings vast quantities of drugs into this country, vast quantities of heroin.
Penn s article did not glorify or celebrate El Chap or drugs, but in typical fashion, Ted Cruz has made a career out of half truths and all out lies.
Cruz s statement didn t sit well with Sean Penn.
In an email sent to Mother Jones, Penn stated: Ted Cruz is a generically funny and dangerously adept thought-smith.
Clearly, he watches too much television and neglected to read my article before criticizing.
It s understood.
He s busy trading genius and raising aspirations with Mr. Trump.
Blame Canada.
Blame Canada is 1999 song from the film South Park.
The song satirizes scapegoating.It s not the first time Penn has criticized Cruz.
Responding in 2013 to an interviewer s question on whether Ted Cruz should be committed to a mental institution, Penn said: He is, he is my American brother.
I won t I think we should take care of him, he is in, he s the trouble.
Penn seems to have been on to something quite early.
Ted Cruz s ideas are quite dangerous and if he becomes president, the country is in deep trouble.
Featured image from YouTube Screenshot.