While many racist Donald Trump supporters are praising the way the Republican nominee doubled down on his disastrous immigration policies yesterday in his speech, it has caused several conservative Hispanic supporters to rethink their decision to back the business mogul.Earlier today, Alfonso Aguilar, the president of Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, made a public show of withdrawing his support for Trump on CNN, and elaborated on a tweet that said he d felt disappointed and misled by Trump s immigration speech:TwitterOn CNN, Aguilar told host Carol Costello that this major immigration speech had cost Trump Aguilar s vote, as well as many other Latino supporters.
When he became the nominee, I thought it was important to give him a second chance.
I m terrified about Hillary Clinton.
And so I decided to support him and I thought that we could work with him and the campaign to move him to the center on immigration.
And the initial response was very good.
Aguilar pointed out the inconsistencies in Trump s message, as well as the harsh policy Trump was pushing now: He said he was going to treat undocumented immigrants without criminal records in a humane and compassionate way, he said he was going to soften his position.
And then we heard yesterday and I was totally disappointed, not surprised, but disappointed and likely misled.
Because he gave the impression, the campaign gave the impression until yesterday morning that he was going to deal with the undocumented in a compassionate way.
And in that speech, he s basically saying, we deport you or we self-deport you.
It s even worse than what he initially proposed.
Trump s speech was so offensive, that Aguilar is taking back his endorsement of Trump: So today I m saying, not only am I considering withdrawing my support, I m telling you today, I m withdrawing my support from Donald Trump.
And it s not only me.
Many like me think the same way.
I m so sorry, I just can t be part of that.
Trump has flip-flopped on immigration several times over the last few weeks, but it seems that for many of his supporters, this is the final straw.
It s about time.Featured image via screenshots