On Tuesday night, seven of the Bundy militants that were previously occupying the Malheur Wildlife Refuge in Oregon were arrested by authorities.
What started as a traffic stop devolved into a gunfight with the FBI, in which the blue tarp man, LaVoy Finicum, was killed.
The five remaining militants with Bundy, one of whom was wounded but survived, were promptly arrested.
There were two other militants that were arrested in separate incidents from the one that involved gunfire.That s when it seemed things suddenly became all too real for Ammon Bundy.
He, along with his fellow rebels, was arraigned in federal court and held without bail while awaiting trial.
The sudden realization of what was happening appeared to knock some sense into his head, prompting Ammon Bundy to call on the remaining militants at the refuge to surrender and leave the compound.Through attorney, Ammon Bundy is telling remaining occupiers in Burns to "Go home.
Hug your families.
Let us take it from here."
Jamie Wilson (@JWilsonreporter) January 27, 2016FBI Special Agent in Charge Greg Bretzing commented that the militants were given ample opportunities to leave the occupation peacefully.
Instead, they have chosen to threaten and intimidate the America they claim to love, he said in a statement during a press conference regarding the arrests and shooting Wednesday.The remaining militants had previously made statements that they were going to resist arrest, with one of them recording a statement that he was going to die fighting while everyone was watching.A check on the militant s YouTube channel shows new video from the compound uploaded as of 1 hour ago at the time of approximately 8:15 pm EST on 1/27, with a live stream scheduled later.
From videos uploaded previously, it seems that there is still a small group remaining on-site.Sheriff Dave Ward also made an emotional appeal for an end to the occupation:This has been tearing our community apart.
It s time for everyone in this illegal occupation to move on.
It doesn t have to be bloodshed in our community.
If we have issues with the way things are going in our government, we have a responsibility as citizens to act on them in an appropriate manner.
We don t arm up and rebel.
We work through the appropriate channels.Source: opb.orgThere are only two ways to end this now.
Hopefully the remaining few realize their lives are not worth throwing away.Featured image via flickr