Like we didn t know this already BUT now we have a firm account of media efforts to bury Trump.
The globalists and media are having a hissy fit because the people are rising up against another term for Obama on steroids.
Yes, Hillary wants even more freebies for the masses.
Who s gonna pay for it?
You!Glenn Greenwald of the Intercept, formerly of The Guardian newspaper, laid out in an interview with Slate magazine that the media in the United States has decided to band together in a last-ditch effort to stop the rise of 2016 GOP presidential nominee Donald J. Trump.Greenwald, the progressive journalist who broke the Edward Snowden mass government surveillance storyline, was asked what he thought about Donald Trump s press conference recently in which Trump joked that Russia should release any emails it has from 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton s illicit private home-brew email server from her time as President Barack Obama s Secretary of State.
What did you think of Trump s press conference?
You ve gone after people who you thought were smearing those denying a Trump-Russia connection, and you ve used the word McCarthyite to describe them.
But now Trump has encouraged the Russians to find or release more Hillary Clinton emails, Slate asked Greenwald.
In his response, Greenwald detailed how the media in the United States has decided to bloc together against Trump s candidacy for the presidency:OK, so, I am glad you asked about that because this is the conflict that I am currently having: The U.S. media is essentially 100 percent united, vehemently, against Trump, and preventing him from being elected president.
I don t have an actual problem with that because I share the premises on which it is based about why he poses such extreme dangers.
But that doesn t mean that as a journalist, or even just as a citizen, that I am willing to go along with any claim, no matter how fact-free, no matter how irrational, no matter how dangerous it could be, in order to bring Trump down.Greenwald bashed the New York Times for pushing, in his words, unmitigated bullsh*t. Read more: Breitbart