Jimmy Kimmel landed a rare, on-air appearance from Donald Trump on the May 25th edition of his show, and wasted no part of the segment in grilling Trump on everything.
Possibly the most interesting twist, however, came when Kimmel read a question from Bernie Sanders, who will be tonight s guest on Jimmy Kimmel Live.
The question?
Hillary Clinton backed out of an agreement to debate me in California before the June 7th primary.
Are you prepared to debate the major issues facing our largest state and the country prior to the California primary?
Trump, ever the attention-whore, replied with something surprisingly philanthropic: Yes, I am.
How much is he going to pay me?
Because if I debated him, we would have such high ratings and I think I should take that money and give it to some worthy charity.
If he paid a nice sum for a charity I would love to do that.
Trump later said that whatever network picked it up could donate the money to charity for this debate.The Sanders campaign wasted absolutely no time in responding to Trump on this:Game on.
I look forward to debating Donald Trump in California before the June 7 primary.
Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) May 26, 2016This would be a truly interesting debate, especially given that primary season isn t over yet, despite all expectations that both nominations would be locked up by now.
There have already been so many monkey wrenches thrown into the primaries that one would think nobody would notice this one.
However, one would be very wrong this could throw the biggest monkey wrench yet into the works, depending on how the two candidates interacted with each other and the moderators in such a setting.As of the time of this posting, there was no formal arrangement to actually hold this debate, and setting it up could be a logistical nightmare for the campaigns.
That could change quickly, though, depending largely on whether the networks see any potential in it.
Honestly, they d be idiotic not to want to do it.
It s hard to imagine that anybody in the country wouldn t want to see these two put their arguments side-by-side in a debate format.As Bernie said, Game on.
Featured image via Michael Vadon/Gage Skidmore/Flickr.
Images merged by Rika Christensen.