Lil Wayne, whose real name is Dwayne Michael Carter Jr, was being interviewed on Fox Sports 1 s show Undisputed in September when he said he had never dealt with racism .Here is the FOX Sports interview.
Watch Lil Wayne say the media doesn t want to ask him about racism that he s faced, because he s blessed and that never faced racism in his life :Carter cited as evidence the fact that his concerts were attended by a lot of white fans.
I thought that was clearly a message that were was no such thing as racism, he told host Skip Bayless.The New Orleans-born rapper came under fire on social media for his comments, but explained they had to do with the man who saved his life.Carter was just 12 years old when he accidentally shot himself in the chest.He was lying on the floor when police broke down his door, stepping over his body as they searched for guns and drugs.The cops who ran into the home were blacker than me , Carter said, but the one cop who stopped to check on him was white as snow .Carter said the man, who was known as Uncle Bob , chastised his fellow officers for leaving him.
He then personally took Carter to the hospital.
(He) stood there and waited until the doctor said He s gonna make it , Carter said.Watch Lil Wayne tell the story of how a cop as white as snow saved his life: Yeah, he was a cop, and my life was saved by a white man.
I don t know what racism is, he added.Still Carter acknowledged that despite what he told Bayless on Undisputed, there is such thing as racism.However, he reiterated that when he looks out from the stage, he sees all colors.
It s the world out there.
It s not a certain part or a certain kind or a certain culture or whatever of people, it s people those people out there in that crowd, Carter said.
I m blessed to have that opportunity, so with that said I can only be honest with such a thing, I have never witnessed racism.
Daily MailLil Wayne allowed Nightline to interview him last year.
Nightline hosts were clearly disappointed when they didn t get the answers they had hoped for from him.
When Nightline host Lindsey Davis attempted to label him as a misogynist, and a sexist, he made it clear her labels were of no consequence to him.
When she asked him about his relationship with weed, Lil Wayne surprised her by saying that in his life, God came first, then family, his kids, then music and last of all weed.
The interview ended when Lil Wayne got angry as Davis seemed offended that he was unwilling to buy into the Black Lives Matter movement being pushed by Barack Obama: