Donald Trump is scheduled to make his first state visit to Britain later this year.
Since the United Kingdom is one of America s closest and oldest allies, the utmost diplomacy and courtesy is usually afforded when either leader visits the other.
That will not be the case during the Trump era, though, if UK House of Commons Speaker John Bercow has anything to say about it.
Citing Trump s racism and sexism, Bercow says that he is against allowing Trump to address the UK s Members of Parliament (MP s).Bercow says that speaking before the distinguished body is not an automatic right, it is an earned honour.
Many MP s were elated at Bercow s move, while others were irritated and worried that he might be straining relations with an ally that the UK needs in his proposed treatment of Trump.
Bercow said of his decision: After the imposition of the migrant ban by President Trump I am even more strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall.
I would not wish to issue an invitation to President Trump.
Bercow then added passionately: I feel very strongly that our opposition to racism and to sexism and our support for equality before the law and an independent judiciary are hugely important considerations in the House of Commons.
Labour Party MP Stephen Daughtry offered high praise for Bercow s extraordinary statement: I am delighted that the Speaker has listened to members from across the house regarding our deep concerns that Donald Trump not be honoured with an address in Westminster Hall or elsewhere in the Palace of Westminster, after his comments and actions on women, torture, refugees and the judiciary.
Another Labour Party MP, Yvette Cooper, said that Trump has been continuing his assault on the democratic values that the British Parliament holds dear.
This really should come as no surprise, because during the election cycle, the entire British Parliament spent more than three hours excoriating Trump.
He was called crazy, a buffoon, a fool, bonkers, dangerous, and more.
Regardless of party, the entire House of Commons were in agreement in their contempt for then-candidate Trump.
Here is a highlight reel, courtesy of the Washington Post, on that debate:All in all, Trump is ruining relationships for America, likely for years to come, just because of his repugnant personal characteristics.
Good on House Speaker Bercow for putting principle above niceties.
Hopefully, people continue to support this move.
In the meantime, let s hope our allies don t judge all Americans by the actions of one unhinged, illegitimate leader.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images