Trump is still beating his widespread voter fraud drum, and it hasn t escaped the notice of the Federal Election Commission.
Now it seems their frustration has overflowed, because one of the commissioners finally demanded that Trump produce his evidence.
Ellen Weintraub, the commissioner in question, issued a formal statement on the matter after Trump told the Senate that thousands of people were bussed from Massachusetts to New Hampshire on Election Day.Apparently those people who were bussed to New Hampshire to vote against him are why he and Kelly Ayotte lost.
Weintraub didn t mince words in her statement.
She said: The scheme the President of the United States alleges would constitute thousands of felony criminal offenses under New Hampshire law The President has issued an extraordinarily serious and specific charge.
Allegations of this magnitude cannot be ignored.
She s right if there really is this kind of voter fraud going on, we need to know.
The proper authorities need to know so they can begin investigating and prosecuting those responsible, and so the states can overhaul their election laws to prevent this from happening again.Trump, however, refuses to release his evidence, most likely because he doesn t have any.
Knowing President Asterisk, the evidence is people who look like they can t legally vote were voting, and also that he lost that state (and the national popular vote), which just can t possibly have happened.The White House has already made it clear they ll stand behind Trump.
Sean Spicer even said: The president does believe [there is widespread fraud].
It s a belief that he s maintained for a while, a concern that he has about voter fraud.
And that s based on information that s provided.
What information?
That s what Weintraub wanted to know when she went on to stick it to Trump on that issue at the end of her statement: I therefore call upon President Trump to immediately share his evidence with the public and with the appropriate law-enforcement authorities so that his allegations may be investigated promptly and thoroughly.
That will never happen, because there is no evidence to provide.
Read the full statement below:I call upon @POTUS to immediately share NH voter-fraud evidence so that his allegations may be investigated promptly https://t.co/cyjUTMXptk pic.twitter.com/DAnsA1cB0n Ellen L Weintraub (@EllenLWeintraub) February 10, 2017Featured image by Mario Tama via Getty Images