While it s convenient to stereotype girls as small mishmashes of sugar, spice, and everything nice, as small humans who spend most of their time playing with their dollies and trying on princess dresses, it s important to remember that every person is a unique individual, each with his own interests.
For instance, 9-year-old Pennsylvania girl Hilde Kate Lysiak loves reporting the news lives for it, in fact.On Saturday, Lysiak received a tip that there was heavy police activity on ninth street in Selinsgrove, so she did what any good reporter would do she headed over to check it out.
Hilde ended up scooping the world on a rather grisly murder.Hours before adult-run news agencies showed up to cover the story, and while her competitors were still misreporting information related to the crime, Hilde was getting facts straight from the scene.
She worked with police and neighbors to get the story out quickly and accurately, posting her article on Facebook with the headline: EXCLUSIVE: MURDER ON NINTH STREET!
She even posted a short video direct from the scene while the real news agencies scratched their heads:The Washington Post reports that Hilde is the daughter of a former New York Daily Times reporter who got her hooked on chasing stories.
She writes on a wide range of topics, but her true passion is crime.
I just like letting people know all the information, Hilde told the Post Monday.
It s just what I really want to do.
And crime is definitely my favorite.
Unfortunately, some spoilsports felt that little girls shouldn t be embarrassing the real news with her excellent reporting.
You are nine f*cking years old, one grown-up told her.
What the f*ck is wrong with you?
The former Mayor of Selinsgrove called it sensationalist trash.
I m disgusted that this cute little girl thinks she is a real journalist.
another alleged adult said.
What happened to tea parties?
Another said that nine-year-old girls should be playing with dolls rather than trying to be reporters.
While her detractors view a straight report that includes nothing but the facts and quotes from neighbors and police as sensationalism, Hilda has a better description of what happened: I got a good tip from a source and I was able to confirm it.
She also received numerous not-so-nice messages in her Facebook page s inbox informing her of how little girls should, and should not, act.
So, she did what any good reporter would do she gathered up the comments, read them Mean Tweets style, and served up a verbal smackdown to those who say that little girls should not report the news: Because of my work, I was able to inform the people that there s a terrible murder, hours before my competition even got to the scene.
In fact some of the adult-run newspapers were reporting the wrong news, or no news at all.
All the while, the Orange Street News was out covering the murder, she said before directing a special message to the people who think she should be playing with dollies instead:I know this makes some of you uncomfortable, and I know some of you want me to sit down and be quiet because I m nine.
But if you want me to stop covering news, then you get off your computers and do something about the news.
There, is that cute enough for you?
Hilde has been running her paper for two years, and it doesn t look like she intends to stop anytime soon not should she.
Everyone who attempts to stifle her creativity and passion should be ashamed of themselves.
But they won t be.Watch her lay the smackdown on her haters below:Featured image via screengrab