This House Republican didn t see this humiliation coming.During an interview on CNN with Brianna Keilar, GOP Rep. Marsha Blackburn embarrassed herself, her home state of Tennessee, and the United States by making a false claim about the immigration vetting process and demonstrating her complete lack of knowledge about how our immigration system works.Keilar, who made a name for herself during the 2016 Election by repeatedly standing up to and humiliating Trump supporters, asked Blackburn for her response to the terrorist attacks in Berlin.
Blackburn immediately began vilifying Muslim immigrants in this country by claiming that they haven t been properly vetted and that our immigration system is flawed.
Her source?
Just random people she hears things from.
One of the things that I m hearing from women, especially, is their deep concern over public safety and making certain we are dealing with the terrorist cells that are located in the United States.
Blackburn said.
They re concerned about what is happening with the refugees and the realization by many people that our governors and our mayors do not know when refugee populations are coming into the communities Many of these individuals are not vetted.
Keilar, who immigrated to America from Australia, knows what the vetting process is like.
So she was able to put Blackburn in her place with firsthand knowledge that every immigrant, even from Australia, are thoroughly vetted.
Can I stop you on that, really quick?
Keilar asked.
Because you said many refugees are not vetted, and I know certainly there are concerns.
The vast majority of refugees are peaceful, there are many people arguing there are risks when you open yourself up to people coming into the country.
But you say they re not vetted and yet, I ve gone through the process and it s pretty extensive.
Keilar also informed Blackburn that several government agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security are involved in the process.Mic.
Dropped.And, of course, Blackburn responded by insisting that all these government agencies aren t doing their jobs and proceeded to treat Keilar like a child who doesn t know anything.Keilar once again countered Blackburn by pointing out that CNN has looked into these claims and what they found proves that Blackburn is only trying to spread fear to advance the GOP s anti-immigration agenda.
When there is someone and they don t know who they are or where they re coming from, they don t let them in, Keilar said.
There s a process to make sure.
Do you know of specific instances where people are completely bypassing what is actually a quite labyrinth process to get into this county?
But rather than answer the question, Blackburn demonstrated that she s full of shit by evading it completely, insisting that Keilar visit an immigration reception center and question the case workers.Keilar reminded Blackburn that immigrants are vetted by the DHS and the FBI along with several other government agencies.
That s when Blackburn threw them under the bus by accusing them of not doing their jobs properly.
She also repeatedly danced around Keilar s question, proving that Blackburn can t point to any specific examples of a Syrian immigrant being poorly vetted.Here s the video via YouTube.The fact is that immigrants face a two-year wait as they are vetted thoroughly to gain entrance into this country.
They are then settled into this country after the long and grueling process and are often the targets of harassment and abuse even though they went through hell to get to the land of freedom and opportunity.If and when a Muslim refugee commits an act of terror, it s not that they came here with that intent.
It s most likely that they were radicalized many years after they arrived here, and that s because they ve had to deal with the constant discrimination and hate from people like Blackburn who demonize Muslims and blame them for every problem.
Stuff like that pushes people over the edge.Plus, immigrants are less likely to commit a crime than a citizen who was born here.
But you don t hear Blackburn or her Republican colleagues calling for years of extensive vetting for every baby born on American soil.
They certainly haven t called for vetting white supremacists after they commit acts of terrorism.
That s because Republicans are hypocrites and are just using Muslims as a scapegoat for political gain.Featured Image: Screenshot