Conservative columnist Monica Crowley is set for a top role in Donald Trump s administration and it s just been revealed that she plagiarized a massive portion of her 2012 book, stealing from journalists, notable Republicans and even from Wikipedia.
Who plagiarizes from Wikipedia, by the way?
She even plagiarized from a statement made by Dick Cheney.
Crowley plagiarized more than 50 times in her book What the (Bleep) Just Happened, according to an analysis.
She literally had to plagiarize in order to be critical of President Obama in her book.We re pretty sure Crowley didn t plagiarize her tweet last year when she wrote, I guess Putin is going to have to do it.
RT State Dept Won t Release Clinton Fdn Emails for 27 Months.
Crowley was picked by the president-elect to serve as senior director of strategic communications for the National Security Council.On Tuesday, publisher HarperCollins said that it will stop selling Crowley s book after the investigation revealed the massive amount of plagiarism in it.
The book, which has reached the end of its natural sales cycle, will no longer be offered for purchase until such time as the author has the opportunity to source and revise the material, HarperCollins said.CNN Money reports:A request for comment from the Trump transition team was not immediately returned.
A spokesperson for the Trump transition team told CNN s KFile Saturday when the initial report was published that they were standing by Crowley.
HarperCollins one of the largest and most respected publishers in the world published her book which has become a national best-seller.
Any attempt to discredit Monica is nothing more than a politically motivated attack that seeks to distract from the real issues facing this country, the spokesperson said.It s not just her book.
Yesterday, it was revealed that Crowley also lifted, with little to no changes, from other scholarly works without proper attribution in her PhD dissertation at Columbia University and the evidence is overwhelming.Last year, the right wing pundit tweeted out a picture suggesting that the existence of the Berlin Wall was a good thing.
Ronald Reagan must be spinning in his grave.
That wall symbolized inhumanity and political failure.Republicans are no longer the party of Lincoln or Reagan.Image via screen capture.