It s expected that Trump s critics would get on his case for lying about massive election/voter fraud there s simply no evidence of it.
One might expect even the most supportive Republicans to jump on him for that too, since they re all about upholding our democracy, and making claims of massive fraud in an election undermines public confidence in democracy.
They re suspiciously silent, though, except for a few.Surprisingly, one of those few is one of Trump s biggest fanboys, Newt Gingrich.
He s spoken out against Trump before, sure, but not very often, not very loudly, and not like this: The president of the United States can t randomly tweet without having somebody check it out, It makes you wonder about whatever else he s doing.
It undermines much more than just a single tweet.
So I d say that s probably the biggest single thing he s done wrong.
[emphasis mine]No, we re not fans of Newt Gingrich, but we are fans of this because he s right: It does make you wonder what Trump is doing that none of us can see.
What he s cooking up behind the scenes.
How he really sees the world, which has been a point of endless speculation.
Things of that nature.Nobody else put it this way, though.
Other critics were more conventional in their criticism of Trump s tweet about election fraud.
They re saying he needs evidence before making that claim, which is also true.
Lindsey Graham, one of Trump s most vocal and vicious critics despite also being a Republican, blasted the specific nature of that tweet: You are now the president-elect of the United States.
If you really believe that millions of people voted illegally, you should have some proof.
Because your voice is not just an ordinary voice.
However, others, including John McCain, just said they weren t going to weigh in on this.
John Cornyn of Texas even said he s got bigger things to worry about, and from his point of view, that very well may be true.
However, it s important to note that Trump actively undermined the people s faith in democracy all through his campaign by crying that everything was rigged against him.In doing that, he made us vulnerable to becoming a dictatorship, the one thing Republicans seem to fear the most.
That s what makes this important.Now that he s won, none of that none of the recount efforts, nor the popular vote should matter much to him.
But there he is, on Twitter, bitching up a dark, smelly cloud about election fraud to try and bolster his own political legitimacy when it all should be tiny potatoes to him now.
That can be a characteristic of an autocrat.Gingrich believes Trump shouldn t stop tweeting, but should put someone between him and his Twitter account to avoid things like this.
That s to be expected no matter what Trump does, Gingrich is still totally and blindly enamored of him (and it s getting kinda creepy, actually).
But to speak to the national press, and say openly and publicly that Trump is actively working to destroy America s (ahem) confidence in him, is pretty huge for a fanboy.Featured image by Drew Angerer via Getty Images