Fox News veteran Bill O Reilly is being slaughtered on Twitter today for appearing stumble drunk as he attempted to interview the candidates after Thursday night s GOP debate.Reviewing the footage, it is clear that O Reilly appears to be tired and emotional, tripping over words and making many long and uncomfortable pauses as he gazes off into the middle distance.
Patton Oswald took to Twitter to accuse the host of being drunk.Holy shit.
I want to turn away but Bill O'Reilly is TRUMAN CAPOTE TALKSHOW DRUNK.
#wow Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) March 4, 2016But a quick search of Twitter reveals that Oswalt was far from the only viewer that found O Reilly s performance somewhat suspicious.
During an interview with Ted Cruz, O Reilly had particular trouble attempting to pronounce words of more than two syllables.
@SamSeder Why on earth do you think O'Reilly is drunk?
pic.twitter.com/41Flj5J9bn Kram Otrop (@mark_esque) March 4, 2016And during an interview with Donald Trump, O Reilly seemed barely able to keep his eyes focussed, or stand up straight.So sociable that Trump pic.twitter.com/wZBabwcPhN Brownette (@beach41st) March 4, 2016John Ross Bowie drew an amusing comparison to this moment below @wilw @pattonoswalt O'Reilly stumble drunk is the only way this could be sadder.
Gerry Duggan (@GerryDuggan) March 4, 2016The host also seemed, at one stage, to be incapable of remembering the name of his own show.Is this how Bill O'Reilly always sounds or did the #GOPDebate go a bit too long?
https://t.co/pdqIEwsM9y Alex Konrad (@alexrkonrad) March 4, 2016It did also appear that O Reilly was ready to break into song.
Perhaps a lament at the demise of his beloved Republican Party?Bill O'Reilly just almost shouted "Live from NY it's Saturday night" https://t.co/lZNw6uunwA Alex Konrad (@alexrkonrad) March 4, 2016Whether O Reilly was over-tired, or simply hammered it s hard to blame him considering the car crash that is unfolding within the GOP.
Both the front runners are radical extremists.
On the one hand, the old-style vainglorious authoritarian Donald Trump who has all but won the nomination.
And his nearest rival, the fire and brimstone creationist theocrat Ted Cruz who would be every bit as dangerous were he to gain access to the White House.The whole election cycle has descended into a playground brawl amongst toddler tyrants.
A gang of extremists so far beyond the pale that Mitt Romney is being wheeled out as a moderate.If O Reilly is drinking, we find it hard to blame him.
Someone has to toast the end of the Republican Party.Featured Image via Screengrab