Conservative lawmakers are far too obsessed with how people have sex.In defiance of the Supreme Court, Michigan Republicans have passed a bill that makes oral and anal sex felonies punishable by up to 15 years in prison.State Senator Rick Jones, an old white right-wing guy who is apparently angry about all the sex he s not having, added the anti-sex language to SB 219, which is supposed to be an animal protection bill, included in a larger package of bills known as Logan s Law.Logan s Law is designed to block convicted animal abusers from owning any pets for five years, but Jones couldn t wait to use the bill to push his own belief that consenting adults who have oral and anal sex should be left to rot in a jail cell.
He slipped in language revising the unconstitutional anti-sodomy law near the very end of the bill in a move that Jones probably hoped would go unnoticed.Here s a screenshot of Section 158 of Senate Bill 219.Despite calls for Jones to remove the section, he claims that to do so would hurt the animal protection bill as a whole.
The minute I cross that line and I start talking about the other stuff, I won t even get another hearing.
It ll be done, Jones said.
Nobody wants to touch it.
I would rather not even bring up the topic, because I know what would happen.
You d get both sides screaming and you end up with a big fight that s not needed because it s unconstitutional.
But Jones is the one who crossed the line in the first place by sneaking in his dream of outlawing oral and anal sex between humans into an animal protection bill.
He s the one who willingly put the overall bill in jeopardy.Jones went on to claim that he believes the only way to repeal the sodomy ban is if the state passes a bill to do so, which he says he could probably vote for.The Supreme Court struck down anti-sodomy laws in 2003, but conservatives across the country have been fighting to keep the laws on the books ever since.
That includes Ken Cuccinelli in Virginia who tried to outlaw carnal knowledge between married couples in 2013 as he failed to become the state s governor.And just like Cuccinelli, it appears Jones is trying to insert Christian fundamentalist law into the civil law, which would create a legal clusterf*ck in this country since it would destroy privacy.
In order to enforce such a law, it would take millions upon millions of dollars, a spying program, and a cop in every household to make sure women and men are only doing it missionary style and that their reproductive organs are in the place where they believe God intended them to be.In short, whenever Republicans say they support smaller government, they are full of shit, and so is Rick Jones.
But I bet Justice Scalia is totally behind him all the way.
Featured image from Facebook