Stephen Colbert was so angry at Senate Republicans that he crushed them into dust during his show on Tuesday night.On Monday, Senate Republicans had the opportunity to join Democrats and pass gun laws designed to prevent suspected terrorists from legally purchasing assault weapons in this country to kill Americans with.Instead, the NRA puppets obeyed their masters and ignored the will of the American people by voting the bills down, which means potential terrorists like Omar Mateen will still be able to buy guns for future mass shootings.And that didn t sit well with Colbert, who wasted no time ripping Republicans to shreds.
We all have jobs to do, Colbert said.
I m doing my job right now and I ve got these cameras here to prove it.
After the attacks in Orlando, I thought, maybe the government might do their job and pass any kind of law.
Even a fig leaf to justify their existence.
They couldn t even agree to keep people on the terror watch list from buying high-powered assault rifles.
I don t understand you, Senate.
Ninety-two percent of Americans want you to expand background checks for gun buyers and you just ignore them!
Since when does 8 percent of the population get to have total control over an issue?
That s like taking your entire family on a cross-country car trip and letting grandma choose all the music!
Colbert then took the gloves off and continued smacking down Senate Republicans with a series of devastating jokes that should make every American so embarrassed that Republicans control Congress that they will do something to reverse that in November.
Hey, Senate, my dog accomplished more than you this week when it rolled over and licked its nuts, Colbert said, with a beat-track playing behind him.
Hey, Senate, I ve seen bugs trapped in amber move faster than you!
You guys think the terrorist watch list is when you put Homeland on your Netflix que.
You might as well ask the gun lobby to check for a hernia as long as they ve got your balls in their hands.
Senate, you couldn t pass a bill if it was coated in Ex-Lax.
But if you ever did pass a bill it would say, Be it resolved, no kissing and the NRA should just leave the money on the dresser.
Senate, you accomplish so little that Kylie Jenner wants to know what you do for a living.
Senate, you got more old white men lying around than a Life Alert ad.
You re so divided, you couldn t come together if you had 30 hours and a reach-around from Sting.
You re like a grandpa after an all-starch dinner, you cannot get sh*t done.
Here s the video via YouTube:Senate Republicans should be ashamed of themselves.
They were sent to Washington to protect and work for the American people, not the NRA.
Clearly, they are incapable of doing anything substantial to protect the lives of Americans because the NRA owns them and would rather they insist that merely saying the words radical Islamic terrorism is enough.
Republicans are not fit to be public servants.
150 years after the GOP ended slavery they ve become nothing more than slaves themselves on a plantation run by the National Rifle Association.
And that is a threat to the lives of every man, woman, and child in this country.Featured Image: Screenshot