GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump has taken a ridiculously hardline and even bigoted stance on immigration.
He has promised to build a wall and force Mexico to pay for it, and he has said that he will erect deportation forces to root out and get rid of all people in the United States without proper documentation.
Well, as we already knew, it turns out that The Donald is the ultimate hypocrite on this one.According to the Associated Press, it turns out that Donald Trump s wife Melania violated immigration laws by working illegally in the United States when she first arrived from her native Slovenia.
Melania often modeled using just her first name, and was first granted entry into the country on a visitor s visa, known as a B1/B2 visa.
This occurred on August 27, 1996.
Melania did not get a legal work visa until October 18, 1996.
During the time when she was prohibited from working in the country, Melania made money on ten different modeling assignments, totaling upwards of $20,000.
She got a green card in 2000, and became a naturalized citizen in 2006.So, in other words, Melania Trump lied about her immigration story, as recently as Thursday, when she once again touted how a million percent legal immigration is the only way to go, and that this is how she did it.
Melania said, in part, in her stump speech: As a young entrepreneur, I wanted to follow my dream to a place where freedom and opportunity were in abundance.
So of course, I came here.
Living and working in America was a true blessing, but I wanted something more.
I wanted to be an American.
Well, it appears that, as has long been suspected, that Melania Trump wasn t as kosher in her immigration and work practices as she claims.
The information obtained by the AP include, but are not limited to, her contract from Metropolitan International Management a modeling agency.
Also, there s the ledgers from the agency, which is no longer in business, that shows Melania working during the time when she had the visitor s visa, but no work visa.
It seems to be a complicated story full of many attempts to cover up Melania s wrongdoing, but it is certainly quite interesting.
This would be why Melania Trump never released actual records regarding her initial immigration to the United States and her eventual path to citizenship.
While it is unlikely that her citizenship is at risk, it certainly means that she committed immigration fraud.
You can read more here at the Associated Press.The long and short of it is this: Donald Trump launched his crazy bid for the presidency preying on the fears of the other.
Namely, immigrants.
That is the height of hypocrisy, seeing as how his own wife didn t completely comply with immigration law.
Hopefully this story, and the many other lies and cover-ups and shady dealings surrounding the Trump campaign break through the hypnotism that the demagogue has spun onto so many desperate citizens of this great country, and they figure out that they are falling for the biggest con of all time.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images