Missouri, in an attempt to make their state capitol building safer, has put into place security measures they didn t have before, however, it appears there s a problem.
A nonexistent problem, but a problem nonetheless.
It seems that people can t carry their guns into the statehouse.
What to do, what to do?
Won t someone please think of those poor people?It turns out that Rep. Nick Marshall is quite the 2nd Amendment freedom fighter, and he has a solution to this less-than real problem.
He ll simply let anyone with a CCW borrow a gun from him if they want.Yes, seriously.
He actually stuck a sign on his door that reads, ATTENTION: Any constituent with a CCW that was refused to carry into the Capitol may borrow a firearm from Representative Marshall for the duration of the visit.
I can t believe one of my colleagues would actually put this on their door.
SMH ?
#moleg pic.twitter.com/F2GRzkjfAu Randy D. Dunn (@MORepDunn) January 12, 2017He also posted it to his Facebook page:What could possibly go wrong?Marshall is angry about the new security measures at the statehouse.
Where once people were able to enter and exit without going through security, now they have to go through metal detectors and put their belongings through x-ray scanners.
Elected officials may still carry concealed weapons, along with their staffs, but not the general public.Of course, every 2nd Amendment warrior in all of existence hates this kind of thing, including Marshall, because freedom and liberty and stuff.
Another Facebook post of his on this issue says:Marshall and other gun nuts don t actually give a damn about the safety of the people around them.
Democratic Rep. Stacey Newman said exactly that in her reaction to Marshall s sign: [I am] greatly disturbed by Rep. Marshall s offer to give guns to his constituents in the state Capitol, purposefully averting our new security restrictions and endangering everyone in the building, including legislators and staff.
I am appalled that even my personal security is of no concern to my colleague.
No doubt Marshall would say that he is concerned about her personal security, and the personal security of everyone in the building, which is why he will loan guns to anyone with a CCW that lost their weapon at the security checkpoint.Never mind that more access to guns tends to mean more shootings, whether they re intentional or accidental.
The good guy with a gun myth is too powerful for these 2nd Amendment warriors, though, and they willfully put people in danger.
Marshall is a complete idiot for this.Featured image via screen capture from embedded tweet