Remember when candidate Donald Trump was condemned by the left for telling Americans that we have criminals coming across our borders?
Well, it turns out that he was not only correct, it appears as though the worst fire in California s history that caused the death of 42 so far and over $1 billion in damage to almost 3,000 homes was very likely started by an ILLEGAL ALIEN arsonist.
From Donald Trump s campaign speech at a rally in Arizona: The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else s problems.
When Mexico sends its people, they re not sending their best.
They re sending people that have lots of problems, and they re bringing those problems with us.
They re bringing drugs, they re bringing crime, they re rapists and some, I assume are good people.
Watch:Well, now that ICE has confirmed that the arsonist arrested in connection with setting the fires that devastated California is a 5-time deported ILLEGAL ALIEN, who in the media is going to tell Trump they re sorry for criticizing him?
Will it be one of the local government officials in Sonoma County who decided to make their county a sanctuary county to protect people like Jesus Fabian Gonzalez, who was arrested Sunday?Breitbart U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Acting Director Tom Homan confirmed on Thursday that a man arrested in connection with setting a fire in Sonoma County Wine Country is an illegal alien from Mexico who has been twice returned to his home country.
Homan also confirmed that ICE has issued detainer requests for Jesus Fabian Gonzalez five times now in the past year alone, including the one issued on October 16 in relation to his most recent arrest on suspicion of arson.
All of the arrests were made by Sonoma County on various felony and misdemeanor charges, according to Homan.Sonoma County is considered a sanctuary jurisdiction and does not fully cooperate with federal immigration officials.
That includes not honoring ICE detainer requests.
ICE was never notified of Mr. Gonzalez various releases, Homan wrote in the statement regarding Gonzalez.There were several fires in the region, and it is not clear what role the fires Gonzales allegedly set played in the overall disaster.The LA Times reported on the incident from eyewitnesses after Gonzalez was seen leaving the scene of the fire: He was screaming really bad things at the police when he was arrested, recalled David Moreno, 29, who witnessed the arrest.
He was yelling things like, I m going to teach you a lesson you ll never forget.
Three Sonoma County probation officers patrolling Maxwell Farms Regional Park just before 3 p.m. noticed a plume of smoke rising from an area near the Sonoma Creek, Sheriff s Department spokeswoman Misti Harris said.Gonzalez walked away from the fire as the officers approached, Harris said.
Nobody else was in the area, Harris said.Sonoma County Sheriff s Department deputies followed Gonzalez to a nearby McDonald s. Gonzalez had previous contacts with law enforcement, she said.Gonzalez told police he started the fire because he was cold, Harris said.
Officers found a lighter in his pocket.
*The recorded temperature at the time that the fires started was a balmy 78 degrees.Some homeless people who knew Gonzalez said that he had a habit of setting fire to brush along the creek bed.Tensions were already high in this smoke-filled region, about 25 miles east of Santa Rosa.Local mechanic Shawn Stephensen, 40, said, A few days ago I was walking down the street with a gas can and someone driving by stopped to say, I wouldn t be carrying a thing like that around at a time like this.
At first I didn t get it, Stephensen, who knew Gonzalez, said.
Then it dawned on me Oh yeah, instant felony case.
What will Governor Jerry Brown, who recently signed off on legislation that makes the entire state of California a sanctuary state have to say about this recent development?