The Breakfast Club interview started out when one of the hosts, Charlemagne Tha god told his audience, Let the record show, when she [Hillary] walked in, I gave her a handshake and she did it the right way.
She bought it in, cuffed it and everything.
Cackling ensued One of the tough questions Hillary got during her interview was, Do you believe in ghosts?
She was also asked if her pants suits are inspired by game show host Steve Harvey.
Instead of admitting that she might lose half of her voting base if they were to see her in a dress, she carries on forever about the ease of a pants suit.
Between coughing fits, Hillary was able to sneak in another ridiculous lie.Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton on Monday said that she always keeps a bottle of hot sauce handy in her bag.
Hot sauce, she said when asked what she constantly carries in her bag.The comments, first reported by TMZ, came during an appearance on Power 105.1 FM s The Breakfast Club.
Really?
Are you getting in that Formation right now?
host Charlamagne Tha God asked before quoting Beyonce s song Formation.
Hot sauce in my bag, swag?
Clinton said that she was indeed serious, leading the host to joke that Clinton is angling for African American voters with a Beyonce reference.Here is the Refrain from Beyonc s anti-cop, racist Formation song: Y all haters corny with that lluminati mess Paparazzi, catch my fly, and my cocky fresh I m so reckless when I rock my Givenchy dress (stylin ) I m so possessive so I rock his Roc necklaces My daddy Alabama, Momma Louisiana You mix that negro with that Creole make a Texas bama I like my baby heir with baby hair and afros I like my negro nose with Jackson Five nostrils Earned all this money but they never take the country out me I got a hot sauce in my bag, swag I want you to know that people are going to see this and say, she s pandering to black people again, he told Clinton.
OK is it working?
the Democratic presidential front-runner quipped.
Seriously I ve been eating a lot of hot sauce and raw peppers.
Via: The HillThe hot sauce comment can be seen at the 25 minute mark: Excuse me, she said coughing, after speaking for about 20 minutes on the air.
Allergy season, she said, as she continued coughing, reaching for her drink.
You all right?
Any mouth to mouth CPR?
one of the hosts joked, trying to lighten the mood.
Senator, you coughing like you have something medicinal, another host said.
Yeah, I need some, she replied as the hosts laughed.
My voice is failing here, she said as she continued speaking in a faltering tone.
The interview went on for about three additional minutes before staffers ended it.Clinton has had multiple coughing episodes during her campaign for president, awkwardly interrupting speeches or interviews as she struggles to regain her voice.
She also had a coughing episode during her testimony during the Congressional Benghazi hearings.
Via: Breitbart News