Former People magazine writer Natasha Stoynoff has produced six witnesses who corroborate her allegations when she said Donald Trump was pushing me against the wall and forcing his tongue down my throat.
We walked into that room alone, and Trump shut the door behind us.
I turned around, and within seconds he was pushing me against the wall and forcing his tongue down my throat, she stated.Trump recently denied the story and later attacked Stoynoff while campaigning, saying, She lies!
Look at her, I don t think so.
One of the witnesses is friend who was with Stoynoff when she ran into Melania Trump later in N.Y.C.Melania Trump is demanding a retraction and apology from People magazine, a move which surprises no one ever, especially since she previously threatened to sue bloggers for quoting from a source.The newest demand letter denies that Stoynoff and Melania ran into each other on the street that day.
In states, in part, The true facts are these: Mrs. Trump did not encounter Ms. Stoynoff on the street, nor have any conversation with her.
Stoynoff s friend Liza Herz remembers the encounter.
They chatted in a friendly way, Herz says.
And what struck me most was that Melania was carrying a child and wearing heels.
But, according to what Melania told Anderson Cooper, that encounter never happened, saying, in part, I was never friends with her, I would not recognize her.
Stoynoff, though, was working on a profile of Melania s husband.People magazine reports:PEOPLE Editor in Chief Jess Cagle says in a statement about Stoynoff s piece, In this week s issue of PEOPLE (which hits newsstands in New York on Wednesday), we feature a story that includes named sources who can corroborate Natasha Stoynoff s account including one woman (a friend of Natasha s) who was actually with her when she bumped into Melania Trump on Fifth Ave., as outlined in her story.
Five other witnesses also back up Stoynoff s account of her encounter with Trump.A longtime friend of Stoynoff s, Marina Grasic, said she got a phone call from her friend the day after the attack.
During that call Stoynoff detailed everything about the assault.Grasic said Stoynoff felt embarrassed and even thought of Trump s then-pregnant wife Melania when deciding not to come forward about the incident.
Natasha was also struggling about not hurting pregnant Melania if the story came out, Grasic says.
Beyond just the attack, she was horrified by the vulgar circumstances under which she was attacked and propositioned to have an affair.
She was there in a professional capacity, writing an article about their happy marriage, and after the incident Trump acted like nothing happened.
In Trump fashion, we can expect Donald to insult the appearance of all six witnesses.Photo by Scott Olson via Getty.