Donald Trump claims the election is rigged and Fox host Sean Hannity irresponsibly does not challenge him, so CNN s Brian Stelter blasted him.The Republican nominee is already making excuses in preparation for when he loses the election in November by claiming without any proof that the election is somehow rigged in favor of Hillary Clinton.
And Hannity has been only too happy to let Trump make his unsubstantiated claims on his show, which will likely anger Fox viewers and make them even more paranoid than they already are.So Brian Stelter used the end of his show on Sunday to teach Hannity how real journalists interview candidates.
Let me show you how not to interview a candidate about something as serious as this, he began before slamming Hannity for failing his audience.
Hannity s not a journalist, but he has a megaphone, and he s using his megaphone irresponsibly.
If a Democratic candidate were saying this stuff saying the election could be rigged then every word of this essay would apply to him or her.
But right now, it s the Republican candidate for president who s trying to delegitimize our democratic process without proof.
It is unpatriotic for any interviewer or any journalist to help him.
Indeed, if the shoe were on the other foot Hannity wouldn t give a damn at all.
He would call any Democratic claims of a rigged election absurd.
You know, because only Republicans win elections fairly.
If they lose it must be because the election was rigged.
Here s the video via YouTube.And of course, being as thin skinned as Trump, Hannity lashed out on Twitter.Hey Brian check Philly enquirer after 2012.
How many districts not a single Romney vote.
Check Cleveland.
Do u prep?
https://t.co/5XORZzkdXQ Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) August 7, 2016 Philly Inquirer.
https://t.co/5XORZzBPmq Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) August 7, 201659??
https://t.co/9PX2hcLdz3 Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) August 7, 2016 Calling us unpatriotic?
59 districts not one Romney vote.
So you are voting for the liar HRC.
Did DNC hurt Bernie?
https://t.co/Wuf5Sv9nCR Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) August 7, 2016 Unreliable liberal sources.
Brian, answer a simple question.
Is HRC a liar?
https://t.co/Wuf5Sv9nCR Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) August 7, 2016As you can see, Hannity is citing a single newspaper report in order to claim that the election is rigged because not a single person voted for Romney in 59 districts in Philadelphia in 2012.But the Philadelphia Inquirer itself conceded that such results may not be so startling after all considering Philadelphia has a majority African-American population especially in these urban districts.
In fact, when the Inquirer attempted to find the few Republicans listed in the voter registry they had either moved away or had voted for Obama after being mistakenly identified as Republicans.They also noted that John McCain didn t receive a single vote in 57 of the districts in 2008.The Inquirer also pointed out the factors that led to such a lopsided result.First, President Obama is the first African-American president, so black voters were especially supportive of him.
Obama won 93 percent of the black vote nationwide.Second, Republicans have largely abandoned fighting for things African-Americans care about like affirmative action and urban development.Third, many parts of Philadelphia and other big cities simply lack Republican voters and it has been this way for decades going all the way back to Franklin D. Roosevelt s presidency.And finally, Romney said a lot of stupid things, including commenting about people wanting free stuff from the government after visiting the NAACP.
Such comments did not go down well with the black community who felt Romney was talking about them.Factcheck.org even pointed out that the 59 that went 100 percent for Obama in 2012 constitute 19,605 votes, just 3 percent of the total votes cast in the city.
Of course, if Hannity really wants to bring up Philadelphia as some kind of proof that Democrats rig elections, we could similarly point out that some precincts in Utah voted unanimously for Romney.
Does that mean Republicans rigged the election there?
Or does Hannity just deal in double standards?Featured Image: Screenshot