Walmart may be discontinuing the sale of Black Lives Matter t-shirts because a police union whined that the shirts hurt their precious little fee-fees, but the need for the message exists nonetheless.
On Wednesday, an African-American Texas woman made the mistake of assuming the police would be on her side after she called to report that a white man choked her son.
Unfortunately, as happens too often in America, he just decided to brutalize her and her family instead of dealing with the situation she was reporting.According to Jacqueline Craig, a neighbor put her 7-year-old son in a chokehold after he allegedly tossed a piece of paper on the ground and refused to pick it up.
Now, a grown man assaulting a child is a serious issue, but you wouldn t know that by the (white) responding officers response.
After Craig explains what happened, the cop asks the dumbest question in the history of stupid utterances by police: Why don t you teach your son not to litter?
Let s ignore for a moment that there is zero evidence that the child actually littered that s just the justification used by Craig s neighbor.
The officer didn t ask is your son ok?
He didn t bother to do anything related to getting to the bottom of the situation.
Something about Craig and her son caused the officer to decide that the boy was guilty.
Naturally, this didn t sit well with Craig.
He can t prove to me that my son littered, Craig angrily told the officer.
But it doesn t matter if he did or didn t. It doesn t give him the right to put his hands on him.
Why not?
the cop asks.As Craig began to yell a bit (I mean, why not, for f*ck s sake), the officer informed her that her lecture pissed him off and Craig s daughter quickly stepped in front of her mother to calm her down because at this point it was clear where things were headed.Though it was clear to everyone including the officer (the girl had her back to him) that the girl did not pose a threat the cop did what cops do best these days and became unnecessarily violent, throwing both Craig and her daughter on the ground and pointing a taser at Craig s head and wildly swinging the weapon around to aim it at lookers-on.As the video ends, the unnamed officer looks into the camera and tells the person filming, You re going to jail too as he knocks the camera out of her hands.Here s a little tip for cops who protest until companies stop selling civil rights-related merchandise: if you have a problem with that but refuse to condemn an officer like this, then you re part of the problem.Fort Worth Police Department s Internal Affairs Unit is currently investigating the unusual arrest of the women.
The man who allegedly choked Craig s son was not arrested.
In fact, the officer never bothered to take a report on the incident from Craig.Watch this horrific example of why Black Lives Matter is needed below:This mother reports TO THE POLICE in Fort Worth that a grown man choked her son.
In seconds, he is brutalizing HER and her family.
pic.twitter.com/kDf7dcAyxW Shaun King (@ShaunKing) December 22, 2016Featured image via screengrab