Former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn gave Donald Trump something to worry about last night, when he announced that he would testify on the Trump campaign s possible ties to Russia in exchange for immunity.
As more experts weigh in on this, it s not looking good for Trump at all.
According to a former top intelligence official, the only way Flynn will get the immunity he s seeking is if he gives up Trump.Jeremy Bash, former counsel to the House Intelligence Committee and the ex-chief of staff for both the CIA and Department of Defense, weighed in on Flynn in an interview for MSNBC: For the Justice Department to agree to give somebody like him immunity, it means they want him to turn and testify against someone higher up in the food chain.
Who is higher up in the food chain, higher than the national security adviser?
There s really only one person, and so this shows that the jeopardy of criminal liability actually extends all the way to the top.
As of right now, Flynn s offer to testify for immunity has not been accepted by investigators, which makes Bash wonder, Immunity from what?
What is he in jeopardy of being prosecuted for?
Bash advised that Flynn could be prosecuted under the Espionage Act for getting classified briefings for the Trump campaign.
Bash said: That is a major felony, and that is essentially treason.
It would not surprise me at all if what the prosecutors said to Flynn s lawyers is, We haven t reached any conclusions on the Russian matter, but we have your guy dead to rights for not registering under the laws requiring registration as a foreign agent and second of conspiring to engage in kidnapping you better come in and make a deal.'
Bash made sure to reiterate that investigators will not accept Flynn s offer unless he gave up information about crimes Trump had committed.
Bash said: You can only give somebody immunity, full immunity, if it s worth it.
They have to believe it s worth it in this case.
You can watch this interview, which is terrible news for Trump, below:Featured image via Scott Olson / Getty Images