When Jared Yates Sexton, a professor of creative writing at Georgia Southern University, decided to attend a Trump rally in North Carolina, he probably wasn t expecting a drunken free-for-all more appropriate to an out-of-control frat party than a presidential rally.
Yet, that s what he saw, and he live-tweeted the entire event, giving the world a chilling look at what Trump supporters are really like when they think they re just among friends.
Upon trying to get in, Sexton saw how security treated people:Trump event like a security state.
Just watched a girl get denied for being too alternative.
Jared Sexton Sexton (@JYSexton) June 14, 2016Sexton himself also got told something strange: Just got told I don t look right.
Jared Sexton Sexton (@JYSexton) June 14, 2016But these two tweets just barely scratch the surface.
After Trump took the stage, people shouting the word Bitch!
was common whenever Hillary Clinton s name came up.
Homophobic hate speech ran rampant as Trump spoke about the Orlando massacre.
A protester cowered in fear after another was escorted out, with the crowd chanting Hurt him, hurt him, even as King Donald told security not to hurt him.Lots of people yelling bitch at Clinton s mention Jared Sexton Sexton (@JYSexton) June 14, 2016 Crowd member just shouted gays had it coming Jared Sexton Sexton (@JYSexton) June 14, 2016Trump says not to hurt protestor, several chant HURT HIM HURT HIM Jared Sexton Sexton (@JYSexton) June 14, 2016 There s a protestor next to me and he s scared to death Jared Yates Sexton (@JYSexton) June 14, 2016If you thought Trump himself was scary, he s nothing compared to his fans.
Sexton s full account of that night included horrors such as this: The gays had it coming [in Orlando]!
a man shouted and gazed back at the guy who d called Hillary a bitch.
They met eyes, shared a smile, a look of recognition.As if it were some kind of joke.As if 49 of his fellow Americans 49 living, breathing human beings hadn t just been mowed down.
Elsewhere, a father was telling his son all about Bill Clinton s presidency: I walked behind a father explaining the shirt to his ten-year-old son by saying the former secretary of the state, the first female presidential nominee of a major political party, had let her husband have all kinds of oral sex in the White House.'
Awhile back, Trump said that Hillary had enabled her husband s adultery while he was president, as if that somehow makes her both less of a woman, and unqualified to be president.
Trump doesn t go after anyone s policy positions the way a presidential candidate should.
He attacks his opponents personally, like the schoolyard bully he is, and his fans are doing the same.That a father thinks it s okay teach his 10-year old how to be the same childish bully as Trump is just sick.But the worst is yet to come.
Trump rallies are full of drunken, brawling racists who say things like: You can t trust Latinos.
Some maybe, but not most.
Immigrants aren t people, honey.
You know them crazy black girls, how they are.
Sexton s Twitter feed is full of sarcastic humor, but what he live-tweeted from that rally in Greensboro, NC, was devoid of his sharp wit.
And it s no wonder, because he also wrote this in his recount of the event (if it can even be called an event ): Sickened, I got in my car and watched in the rearview as a group of college boys tailgated out of their pickup That s when I realized what had been there all along.
This campaign, whose success has long been attributed to the forgotten working and middle classes, the so-called Silent Majority, has been, and always will be, an unholy alliance between the Hateful and the Privileged, the former always on a never-ending search for new venues for their poison and the latter enjoying, for the first time since Reagan s 80s, an opportunity to get out and step on some necks in public.
Any reasonable person would find themselves sickened at a Trump rally if this is normal, and given what s happened to protesters, members of the press, and others, this is normal.
It s clear that the only thing Donald Trump is truly capable of is bringing out the worst of humanity, which isn t surprising considering he himself embodies the worst of humanity.Featured image by Gerardo Mora/Getty Images