It s already been reported heavily that celebrities are in short supply for racist hatemonger and Russian-installed puppet Donald Trump s inauguration but it seems he has a much more embarrassing problem.
Even high school marching bands don t want to show up to celebrate his coronation.NBC Washington reports that high school bands at least one of which has participated in the past five inauguration parades have entirely opted out of applying for consideration this year:Ballou High School s Majestic Marching Knights performed Destiny s Child s Lose My Breath at George W. Bush s second inaugural parade in 2005, and stepped along Pennsylvania Avenue as they played James Brown s I Got You (I Feel Good) at Barack Obama s second inaugural parade eight years later.But the beloved band decided to take a break in January and not apply to play in the inaugural parade after several other recent performances, the principal said.Dunbar High School s band marched in Obama s first inauguration in 2009 but the school will sit this one out because they are rebuilding the band, the principal said.Eastern High School also chose not to participate, the principal said, without elaborating.In fact, a D.C. Public Schools spokeswoman says she isn t aware of a single band in the district that had applied to participate in the January 20 inaugural parade.Trump s problem doesn t extend to just high school bands.
Howard University, which performed in Obama s first parade, also decided to just skip it this time.
Band director John Newson cites too few members and budgetary constraints, but says he suspects that the low level of interest is tied to band directors and school administrators political beliefs (or, of course, their sense of decency).
I think everybody knows why and no one wants to say and lose their job, Newson said.NBC notes that the issue extends to neighboring counties as well:Like in D.C., many bands in the surrounding counties opted not to apply to participate in Trump s inauguration.
No bands in Arlington County or Prince George s County public schools applied, according to district representatives.
University of Maryland, College Park, which played in 2013, did not apply.
A Fairfax County schools spokesman was not aware of any schools that had applied.
And a Montgomery County schools spokeswoman did not have information available.Applications to be in the parade were due on December 5 extended once from November 28 to allow bands more time to apply and the Presidential Inaugural Committee, which refuses to say how many bands applied, is expected to make an announcement as to which bands were selected soon which should be quite embarrassing for The Donald.Featured image via Getty Images/Andrew Burton