For months now people close to Trump have been privately saying the president is consumed by a seething jealousy of his predecessor, Barack Obama.
Where Trump s approval ratings continue to circle the drain, Obama s have seen a post-presidency surge.
Adding to that, Obama s signature piece of legislation is not only more popular than ever, but the replacement Trump came up with imploded before it even got a vote.
In the media and from political observers Obama is viewed as smarter, more mature, and more gifted politically than Trump.
And Trump knows it.So what is Trump to do?
Imitate.Hours after he ordered a missile strike in Syria, Trump s press secretary Sean Spicer tweeted an image of the situation room.WH photo (ed for security): @potus receives briefing on #syria military strike fr Nat Security team, inc @vp , SECDEF, CJCS via secure VTC pic.twitter.com/aaCnR7xomR Sean Spicer (@PressSec) April 7, 2017It bore a disturbing resemblance to one of the most famous photographs of Obama s time in office, the night he ordered the mission to kill Osama Bin Laden.However, unlike Obama s image filled with serious people doing serious jobs Trump s version contains a number of unqualified goons.
The photograph of Obama and his staff signaled strength.
Trump s imitation serves only to show the world what a clown show Trump s White House is.Trump s attack on Syria may have earned praise by right-wingers, but it s already escalating tensions in the region and may someday be viewed as the opening shot in a devastating global war.
Russia, rather than cave to Trump s show of strength has vowed to arm the Syrian regime with more anti-aircraft weapons meant to shoot down any U.S. plane that crosses the border.BREAKING Russian military says it will help Syria strengthen its air defenses after US strike.
The Associated Press (@AP) April 7, 2017The attack also alienated Iran, pushing them further into the sphere of Russia and the Assad government.Those are some serious consequences for actions being made by Rex Tillerson, a former oil executive with ties to Russia; Steve Bannon, the owner of white nationalist website Breitbart; and Jared Kushner, the son of a real estate mogul who married the daughter of a real estate mogul.
The fact that those men are even in the room is a disgrace to America s military, who will likely carry the brunt of the consequences.But perhaps the biggest joke in the room is that Donald Trump himself.
Or put another way:Two years ago, the man who just ordered a missile strike was deciding whether or not to fire Gilbert Gottfried from a game show Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) April 7, 2017Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images