Muslims care more about the people of Flint, Michigan than Republicans do.The Republican-caused disaster unfolding in Michigan is incredibly infuriating.
In a penny-pinching scheme, Governor Rick Snyder and his emergency management henchmen decided to switch Flint s water supply from Lake Huron to the nearby river, which has been undrinkable for decades due to high levels of lead and other industrial chemicals.For well over a year, the residents have been forced to drink and bathe in this water all while Republicans insist that the water is perfectly safe.So far, Republicans have done very little to fix their mess.
Instead, they been busy trying to absolve themselves of any responsibility, which is why President Obama stepped in to do their job for them.
And now, Muslims are coming to the rescue as well.
Who is Hussain?
is an organization honoring the memory of Imam Hussain ibn Ali, a grandson of the Prophet Muhammad who was killed by extremists by speaking out against violence.
He died by being denied water over the course of several days.
The organization believes that denying water to any human being is unacceptable and bringing water to those who need it is part of their campaign.And the organization has already collected 30,000 bottles of fresh drinking water for the Red Cross to distribute to the residents of Flint, even though Republicans and conservatives across the state and the nation have demonized Muslims repeatedly.
Despite the hatred and racism hurled against them, they have chosen to help anyway.
Prophet Mohammad taught us Your neighbor comes before your own household.
As a resident of Detroit this is not only a Flint problem this is a Michigan problem and I feel obligated to help to the best of my ability, said Mohammed Almawla, who helped collect water for Flint.
We saw what needed to be done and we decided to do it, said event organizer Dr. Aziza Asakari.
We reached out to schools, neighbors, friends, mosques, anyone and everyone to help us by donating a case of water, or money towards a case.
This inspiring story is the very definition of American values.
A group of people coming together for the purposes of helping a community in need.
No one would blame these Muslims for turning their backs on their fellow citizens for the way they have been treated recently, but they chose to come to their aid despite the discrimination they have faced by the right-wing in recent months.Republicans should be ashamed of themselves.
They poisoned the citizens of Flint, Michigan and have failed to take responsibility.
Governor Rick Snyder should have resigned by now but he refuses to do so.
Now Muslims are working to provide clean water to the residents in an act of humanity that proves once and for all that conservatives are full of shit whenever they talk about Muslims.
Muslims are helping the American citizens that Republicans willingly chose to harm.
It s pretty easy to recognize that it is Republicans, and not Muslims, who are the real threat to our safety and security.Featured Image: Washington Times