Caller-Times: Speaking on CNN Wednesday, the fourth-term congressman refuted a widely believed conclusion that the Russian government interfered with the U.S. presidential election to aid President Donald Trump s campaign and instead indicated a conspiracy theory about a slain Democratic National Committee staffer could be true.
My fear is our constant focusing on the Russians is deflecting away for some other things that we need to be investigating, Farenthold said on the network.
There s still some question as to whether the intrusion of the DNC server was an insider job or whether or not it was the Russians.
Later Wednesday, Farenthold elaborated on his opinion of how the investigation should be handled in a phone interview with the Caller-Times.
The death should be investigated in the same manner Russian interference has been reviewed, he said.
That should be a part of the ongoing investigation into alleged Russian interference in the election, because that s an alternative theory that deserves being looked at, Farenthold said.Watch how quickly CNN hosts John Berman and Poppy Harlow attack Congressman Farenthold when he even suggests there s something suspicious about the supposed robbery gone bad (where no valuables were stolen) that lead to the murder of DNC staffer Seth Rich.
JUST NOW @farenthold on @CNN suggests the DNC hack was an insider job," sources stuff circulating on the internet https://t.co/97zytNWHVR Haley Draznin (@haleydraz) May 24, 2017While he has not formed an opinion on the nature of Rich s death, Farenthold said the theory that it was a retaliatory killing for leaking committee information is as credible as the anonymous sources being cited in the (Former-FBI Director James) Comey and Russian stories against President Trump.
Farenthold said the Russian conclusion is premature until there s a review of Democratic committee s computer system by an independent investigator.
We re relying only on the report of somebody that the DNC contracted to examine their computer rather than having federal officials, Farenthold said.
To me, we need to let the feds look at it.
Watch: