The North Carolina bathroom law is heading to federal court because the state s governor is suing the government for the right to discriminate against the transgender community.On Monday, Governor Pat Bigot McCrory filed a lawsuit against the Department of Justice (DOJ) and has asked the court to rule that HB2 is not discriminatory.
The governors complaint cites letters sent from the Department of Justice last week threatening to sue the state for violating the Civil Rights Act.
McCrory s complaint is seeking declaratory and injunctive relief against the United States of America the DOJ and Attorney General Loretta Lynch because of: their radical reinterpretation of Title VII of the Civil Rights of 1964 which would prevent plaintiffs from protecting the bodily privacy rights of state employees while accommodating the needs of transgendered state employees.
Apparently, protecting the bodily privacy rights of their employees can only be done if they deny those same rights from the transgender community.
I m not sure if McCrory has any idea what a woman s restroom looks like, but it s not a bunch of open stalls where we are all holding hands and peeing.
Each person has an individual and private stall to do their business our bodily privacy is already protected.The complaint goes on to claim that the by protecting all of its citizens from discriminatory laws like the one in North Carolina is baseless and blatant overreach : This is an attempt to unilaterally rewrite long-established federal civil rights laws in a manner that is wholly inconsistent with the intent of Congress and disregards of statutory interpretation by the Courts.
McCrory is claiming that the Civil Rights Act doesn t protect the transgender community, but it absolutely does.
It says that he is not allowed to discriminate against employees on the basis of sex, race, color, national origin, and religion.
Sexual identity falls into the category of sex, therefore, McCory is not legally allowed to pass a law that discriminates against his employees based on their sex.
It s not a radical interpretation unless he considers using common sense radical, but then again we are talking about a Republican so .What this all boils down to is bigotry and hate.
Republicans fight tooth and nail against protecting any class of people who are not white, straight, Christian males.
The transgender community is just their latest target.
Unfortunately for them, it is 2016 and President Obama s DOJ doesn t not put up with that kind of bullshit.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images