If you want to know how Trump treats the press, you need only read the White House press pool report from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu s visit:The pool was then ushed into the Oval.
POTUS and Benjamin Netanyahu sat in two chairs set up in front of the fireplace.
FLOTUS sat on the couch to POTUS s right.
Sara Netanyahu sat on the opposite couch.
POTUS referred to the press as: The nicest people over there.
This remark was a clear attempt to soften up the people Trump usually demonizes as fake news and the lying media.
In fact, the report says Trump even went out of his way to compliment FAKE NEWS CNN s Sarah Murray on a recent story.
It was then that Murray, undeterred by The Donald s effort to win her over with a couple compliments, asked her question and all hell broke loose:He called out to CNN s Sara Murray and complimented a recent story.
She asked POTUS to comment on whether his advisors contacted Russian intelligence officer during the campaign.
*_Trump did not respond to her question._* Pool was asked to leave.This should have been an easy question for Trump.
The answer is yes.
Calls between key Trump staffers have not only been intercepted and made public by our own intelligence agencies and those of our allies who now have to spy on us because Trump is likely compromised.
Michael Flynn just resigned because of his discussions of sanctions with the Russian ambassador while Obama was still President.Instead, Trump said nothing.
No admission of wrongdoing, no promise to vet his people better or to actually do his f*cking duty to the American people, nothing.The terrifying thing is that Trump doesn t have to say anything.House Oversight Committee Jason Chaffetz that s the guy who led the charge against Hillary Clinton has already vowed that he will never satisfy their desire to bring down Donald Trump.
Rand Paul accidentally admitted that Republicans won t back a Trump investigation because they re too busy taking healthcare away from our country s most vulnerable.
Besides, it s not like Trump is a Democrat, right?
I just don t think it s useful to be doing investigation after investigation, particularly of your own party, Paul says.
We ll never even get started with doing the things we need to do, like repealing Obamacare, if we re spending our whole time having Republicans investigate Republicans.
I think it makes no sense.
Think about that.
Trump wasn t joking when he said he could shoot someone in public and not lose support and he wasn t just talking about voters.
At this point, we can pretty safely assume that our government is compromised to the point that he can literally get away with anything.
You either have a country or you don t, a small-handed orange man once said a few billion times.
Call your congressmen.
Demand they do the right thing and investigate and impeach Donald J. Trump now while we still have a country.Featured image via Getty Images/Win McNamee