During an investigation into allegations of police sexual misconduct, San Francisco District Attorney George Gascon uncovered a new series of racist and homophobic text messages, which were exchanged between law enforcement officers as the department s text message scandal unfolded last year.According to Gascon, the newly discovered racist, homophobic texts show San Francisco police officers mocking public outcry over the earlier exchange of racist, homophobic texts.As Addicting Info reported here, in March of last year 14 police San Francisco police officers were identified in the scandal, which erupted after District Attorney Gascon uncovered a slew of text messages which contained references to cross burnings, the KKK, white power and other highly offensive, patently racist material.
The messages referred to Black people as n*gg*rs and savages.The text messages revealed a culture of racism and homophobia within the department.
One officer wrote about watching Black children like a hawk.
An exchange between two other cops read: I hate to tell you this but my wife friend [sic] is over with their kids and her husband is black!
If [sic] is an Attorney but should I be worried?
A second officer responded by texting, Get ur pocket gun.
Keep it available in case the monkey returns to his roots.
Its [sic] not against the law to put an animal down.
The newly discovered texts were exchanged by a group of officers who were not connected to the previous texting scandal.While Gascon s office did not release the texts, according to KCBS the officers used racist and homophobic comments, while mocking the public outcry over the racist and homophobic texts sent by their fellow officers.Gascon, who created an independent panel to investigate racism inside the San Francisco police department, said the problem is not just a few isolated incidents of racism and homophobia.
This problem is more systemic and it needs to be addressed in a more deeper fashion, he told KCBS.After the text messages were uncovered last year, multiple criminal cases which were thought to be tainted by the officers involved in the texting scandal were dismissed by the District Attorney s Office.According to San Francisco Public Defender Jeff Adachi, the newly uncovered texts may be grounds to dismiss a number of additional cases.In a statement released on Thursday, Adachi wrote: In light of revelations that a second group of San Francisco police officers exchanged racist and homophobic text messages, my office will begin a full review of past cases that may have been tainted by these officers.
I am also calling for an independent investigation into when the police chief and district attorney learned of the text messages.
Every person in San Francisco deserves equal justice.
It does them a grave disservice to dismiss every hateful act as an isolated incident.
The police department must address the culture that lets racism fester in its ranks.
Here s more on this story from KCBS.
Featured image via video screen capture via KCBS