As Republicans stall any talks relating to gun reform or gun violence, Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy, who served at the time of the Sandy Hook tragedy, has taken to the floor of the Senate where a filibuster will be in place until the Republicans abandon their cowardice and do the right thing.Vowing to continue talking until something is done, Senator Murphy plainly put it: I m at my wits end.
I ve had enough.
I ve stood on this floor dozens of times talking about this subject.
Now often I come down to the tell the stories of the voices, the victims, of these gun homicides and these mass shootings, just to make sure everyone here knows who these people are.
They are real people, with families.
And so this isn t new to me, but I m at my wits end.
I ve had enough.
I ve had enough of the ongoing slaughter of innocence, and I ve had enough of inaction in this body.
Interrupting consideration of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act, Murphy demanded that Senate Republicans take up a clean cut vote on closing the gun show loophole, and banning people on terrorist watch lists.Joining Senator Murphy was New Jersey Democrat Cory Booker, who pledged Democrats would hold the Senate floor until action is taken.
Already two hours in, Democrats will not be budging.Senator Murphy s spokesman Chris Harris told reporters: Until private sales at gun shows and over the internet also require stringent background checks and unless suspected terrorists on the no fly list are prohibited from legally purchasing guns, our lax gun laws will continue to allow terrorists and criminals to amass a weapons stockpile.
Sen. Murphy will remain on the floor demanding the Senate adopt these measures.
Of course, Republicans chided Senator Murphy over the use of a filibuster, accusing him of delaying important voting matters.
Before the start of the filibuster, Senate Democrats slipped in a provision in the Appropriations Act to ban watchlist suspects from buying a gun, and Republicans have accused Murphy of obstructing his own end-game.Who wants to bet Republicans would have blocked that appropriations bill because of the provision?Watch the filibuster, live stream, here:Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images