Most Americans wish that the 2016 Presidential Election were already over, but we all have to wait three more weeks, which means hearing more claims from Trump that the election is rigged against him.
The Republican nominee has been making such claims since the conventions for both parties ended in July and Hillary Clinton came out with a large lead over him.He has accused the media and the Clinton campaign of colluding to fix the election in Hillary s favor and is urging his supporters to go to polling places on Election Day to intimidate voters.
Trump has drilled his rhetoric about election rigging into his supporters heads so deep that many of them are already threatening bloody violence and the assassination of Hillary Clinton if she wins.Well, President Obama has had enough of Trump s bullshit whining, and he slammed him for it during a White House news conference on Tuesday.Calling Trump s claims irresponsible, President Obama pointed out that Trump s whining doesn t show the kind of leadership and toughness that you want out of a president.
President Obama addressed the absurdity of Trump s claim by noting that America s election system is decentralized, which means elections are run by local and state governments, and that there are way too many votes being cast across 50 states that it s impossible to rig an election.Indeed, over 100 million Americans voted in 2012 and a comprehensive study concluded in 2014 that out of one billion votes cast since 2000, only 31 credible cases of voter fraud were found.So Trump s claim that the election is rigged has no historical evidence to suggest election rigging has occurred in the past.
And President Obama declared that such claims are unprecedented I have never seen in my lifetime, or in modern political history, any presidential candidate trying to discredit the elections and the election process before votes have even taken place.
It s unprecedented, Obama said.
It happens to be based on no facts.
Trump started whining before the game is even over, Obama continued.
I d advise Mr. Trump to stop whining, and go try to make his case to get votes.
President Obama then took the high road by saying that if Trump wins on November 8th he will meet with him at the White House like an adult and escort him to his inauguration for a peaceful transfer of power.
And that is the total opposite of what Trump and his supporters say they will do if Hillary Clinton is the winner.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is a threat to our democracy.
His repeated claims that the election is rigged is making his supporters paranoid and bloodthirsty.
As President Obama said, Trump must congratulate Hillary Clinton if he loses and concede defeat gracefully.
Calling the results rigged and refusing to admit defeat would only hurt our democratic process and could result in violence and chaos, especially if his supporters try to overthrow the federal government.If that happens, Trump and his supporters should be arrested and charged with committing treason against the United States.
Period.For now, Trump needs to stop whining and abandon his rhetoric about rigged elections.
It s not helping him.
He s only embarrassing himself and making himself look even more unfit to be president.Featured image via screenshot