Donald Trump obviously has a knack for purchasing beautiful women.
His first wife, Ivana, was a model from the Czech Republic who was famous for gaudy accessories and over-spending.
Trump cheated on her and eventually married Marla Maples, who may have actually loved him for some reason but grew tired of him and moved on with a good chunk of his money.
His current wife, Melania, is yet another Eastern European model who loves the lavish lifestyle he provides for her.In between the women who have allowed him to buy them, after the millions of dollars in divorce costs, Trump has always declared himself something of a ladies man.
He and his ahem giant hands have been telling stories of his conquests for decades.
The problem is, just like everything else about Trump, the stories are mostly exaggerations, outright lies or rumors that he enjoyed a little bit too much to dispel in good conscience like a decent human being.
Go figure.
Here s a list of five of the famous women Donald Trump has lied about dating and how they humiliated him when they had made his list:The former Olympic champion ice-skater was 41-years-old and happily married when her supposed affair with The Donald happened.
After The New York Daily News reported her as a possible Trump fling, she felt she needed to respond since Trump decided not to dispel the rumor: The reason I m going public with my outrage over this allegation is that I had hoped that Donald Trump would issue his own statement of the rumor being completely unfounded, and that has not happened quickly enough, she said.
I ve been around Donald Trump four times in my life.
I wouldn t even call him a good friend.
Ouch.
Even though that happened in 1990, you just know it still stings the orange man s ego.The Dynasty Star who played Princess Diana in two TV movies told People that there was no truth at all to the rumors she and Trump were an item.
Again Trump remained silent, allowing himself to be associated with yet another beautiful woman far out of his league: [He s] a complete joke as far as I m concerned.
I hardly know the man, Oxenburg told People in 1990.And another one down.
No wonder he allowed his actual affair with Maples to go public.
His reputation was taking a severe beating.The cosmetics mogul refused to give any credence to the rumor she and Trump were a thing, dispelling it with a simple I don t know what you re talking about, when asked by People.
Trump never attempted to call her out, because the rumors he allowed to continue were obviously not true.The prominent swimsuit model and wife of NHL star Ron Greschner never bothered to answer the allegations she was into Trump.
She allowed her manager, Steve Gutstein, to do it for her instead: Donald Trump is a fortunate man, but he s not that fortunate.
That s another one that had to just hurt.
Trump could very well have avoided all of the humiliation by telling the truth about these rumors when they happened or by not starting them if he was the source but he instead rode the wave of ignorance that has carried him towards the Republican nomination 26 years later.The socialite and designer who was married to Trump s billionaire acquaintance Henry Kravitz (it s a well-established fact that Trump doesn t have friends), said the rumors were ridiculous.
She added, I m married to the greatest man in the world.
Those are words Trump has probably heard quite often himself after he buys something extravagant.To his credit, there was one rumor Trump decided to debunk on his own.
In the prime of Mike Tyson s career, Trump was accused of a fling with Robin Givens.
It s not too difficult to figure out why.
Featured image From Getty Images, modified