Donald Trump sure knows how to pick his surrogates.
They seem to be just as deluded and self-centered as he is.
In the midst of the world economy facing catastrophic consequences as the United Kingdom votes to exit the European Union, one of Trump s supporters, Wayne Allyn Root, went on television and took credit for the economic crisis.Now most people would not want to take credit for such a thing, but this is a Trump supporter we are talking about here.
Appearing on Fox News on Sunday, Root said to the hosts of Fox and Friends: I wouldn t be surprised if in the last week they ve lost some business.
And I m sure it s going to build as the word gets out as we get to the convention and people hear about this terrible, terrible business decision biased business decision, I think a reckless business decision.
And I know that after the Brexit on Friday, Apple stock is very close to their 52-week low.
So whether it was me or whether it was word getting out from others or whether it was the Brexit, I know Apple stock isn t doing to good either.Have some patience, I think Apple is going to feel it in the pocketbook eventually.
This all comes with Apple s decision to pull out of donating technical supplies and money to the Republican National Convention, all because of controversial presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump.
Yes, you read that right.
Wayne Allyn Root believes that his feeble campaign against Apple has the power to have this kind of effect on the Global economy.
Good luck with that, sir.Even one of the hosts on Fox, Clayton Morris, reminded Root that the folks at Apple likely saw the disassociation from the RNC in the wake of Trump s nomination as a good business decision.
Root was undeterred, though, and pressed on: As the CEO you can make a personal decision, but you have no right to make a business decision and offend half your customers.
Morris also pointed to the fact that Apple has made no comments on the Democratic National Convention, either: We have no word from Apple if they are not going to donate stuff to the DNC also.
So, we still don t know the other half of this story.
But as you can tell, we have a lot to say about it.The only thing that I know is that this Brexit was all tied into what we re talking about.
I think that people all over the world are getting sick of big companies, big corporations and big media and big government all being tied together and making decisions that hurt the people.I think Apple s tied to it.
I think the United States government, Obama [is] tied to it.
I think Brexit s tied to it.
I think it s time for Trexit, which is Donald Trump.
So, in other words, this Trump supporting loon s rants were too much even for Fox and Friends, which is definitely saying something.
Time for your medication, Mr. Root.
If you think you re more powerful than Brexit and that your sorry boycott of Apple along with nationally televised rants like this are actually helping your candidate, you are sorely mistaken.
Sane people don t listen to crazy people and take them seriously.Watch the lunacy unfold below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture