Corey Lewandowski was not prepared to be a joke.But that s what happened when he claimed that Mexico will pay for the wall Donald Trump wants to build along the southern border while speaking to a group of students at the University of Oxford in England.For some reason, the administrators of the distinguished university welcomed the Trump stooge while a protest against fascists raged outside on campus.At some point, a female student asked Lewandowski how he can defend Trump despite his bigotry and lies even after he claims to want unity but hires white nationalists to serve in his administration.
How do you have so little self-respect that you can stand here and defend a candidate who s not only a bigot but a liar who doesn t have the courtesy to follow through, she asked.Lewandowski responded by being an asshole and then failed to answer the question by talking about how Mexico is going to pay for the wall.
Well, the good news is I m seated doing that, so I don t have to stand, so I appreciate that.
But here s what it comes down to: Mexico will pay for the wall, and it s very simple.
At that point, all the students in attendance broke out in laughter because they know full well that Mexico isn t going to be paying for a single inch of Trump s wall.Here s the video via YouTube.In fact, it will be Americans who pay for it and Trump has admitted as much.During his Grievance-burg address in Gettysburg last month, Trump mentioned the wall while talking about his plan to end illegal immigration.
The End Illegal Immigration act fully funds the construction of a wall on our southern border, Trump said.
Don t worry about it.
Remember I said that Mexico is paying for the wall.
However, he then added this remark.
With the full understanding that the country of Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such a wall, okay?
Here s the video of that via YouTube.
The remarks begin at the 32:00 mark.The cost of Trump s wall is estimated to be close to $25 billion which would come out of the pockets of American taxpayers because Donald Trump is a con man who has convinced his dumbass supporters that they are getting free stuff.So, Trump is now humiliating this country by sending his cronies out to other nations to demonstrate just how much of a laughingstock America has become because he won the election.Mission accomplished.Featured image via screenshot