A 43-year-old man with a surgically implanted bionic penis is set to actually use it for the first time.
Mohammed Abad, from Edinburgh, will take the life changing step next week with 35-year-old sex worker Charlotte Rose after they get to know each other when they go on a dinner date in London.
Abad lost his organ as a result of a freak road side accident and was fitted with a bionic one that apparently allows him to perform.
Abad said: I have waited long enough for this it ll be a great start to the new year.
My penis is working perfectly now so I just want to do it.
I m really excited.
I can t wait for it to finally happen.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6nQF39iUyYg]When he was six, Abad was pushed into a road and fell under a moving car which dragged him 600 feet resulting in serious injuries, including to his genitals.
He was fitted with a bionic replacement in 2012 but it s only been fully functional since 2015, when surgeons performed a special operation which will apparently allow him to have intercourse.
Here is how the device works: The sexual device contains two tubes which fill up using liquid from his stomach, allowing him to maintain an erection.
The contraption complete with on and off buttons in his testicles to pump it up or deflate it was made from the flesh of his arm and fitted by surgeons at University College London.
It has a button in his testicles which he can press to pump it up, as well as another button which drains the penis after use, so it deflates.
Here is how the gadget was attached: Molding and attaching it took three years, with doctors from University College London using a skin graft from his arm to line its shaft.
The skin and fat from his forearm was removed to create the new penis, which was then attached during an 11-hour operation.
Along with giving him a sex life it has also allowed him to pass urine standing up for the first time.
It took surgeons at University College London three years to mold Mohammed Abad s new penis using skin taken from his arm.
However, it wasn t that simple.
Abad said that he s had some complications as a result of the surgery: I got out of hospital on the 10th of July and got a train back up to Scotland.
I had to keep it erect for two weeks.
I had to do that for it to heal, because that s the way it works.
My old penis didn t go to waste my surgeon used it to make my scrotum.
In the last three years, Abad has had 119 operations.
But that s not stopping him.
His soon-to-be partner Charlotte Rose, who s a campaigner for sexual freedom and a dominatrix, said that that she is honored that Abad picked her and that she will not charge him.
Abed, who was married for over two years, never told his wife that he didn t have a penis until their wedding night.
She would later leave him.
Rose said that she hopes that Abad will have more confidence after he loses his virginity.Hopefully everything will work out for Abad and he can be on his way to living a normal life.