Former President George W. Bush s Undersecretary of State for Public Diplomacy joined the ranks of an ever-growing list of Republicans who find themselves backing the Democratic nominee when he announced on Monday that he is endorsing Hillary Clinton for president.Speaking with MSNBC on Monday night, James Glassman, who also happens to be the founding director of the George W. Bush Institute at the former president s library in Dallas, officially announced he was backing Clinton and hailed her as by far the superior candidate.
She has the experience.
She s got the character.
She has the values, Glassman said.
She is the kind of candidate I support and that, as I say, millions of republicans are supporting.
Glassman may be the highest ranking Republican to decide that he would have to be batshit crazy to support Donald Trump, but he is far from alone.
He joins a growing number of other Bush administration officials who have endorsed Clinton and denounced Trump s bid for the presidency.
Former Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage, former aide to President Bush Lezlee Westine, and former Bush State Dept.
and NSC official Kori Schake have all said that they are backing Clinton over Trump.Sally Bradshaw, who managed two campaigns for Jeb Bush when he was running for governor, has said that because she lives in a swing state, she will cast her vote for Clinton if the race in Florida is close in November.
Other former Bush officials, including former CIA and NSA director Michael Hayden, have strongly criticized the GOP nominee but have stopped just short of officially announcing their support for Clinton over Trump.Republican Rep. Richard Hanna, who decided a while ago that he would retire when his term is up, is currently the only elected Republican to officially declare that he is endorsing Clinton.
However, there are many prominent conservative lawmakers on Capitol Hill who have said that they refuse to vote for Trump even though they have not officially come out in support of Clinton.Featured image via YouTube