Documentary filmmaker Ken Burns knows a thing or two about presidential decorum.
He has made documentaries on Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Franklin Roosevelt.
He s also an accomplished student of history, which means that when he says Donald Trump isn t presidential, Americans should stand up and take notice.Burns appeared on Morning Joe on Monday morning.
He was asked if Trump was the least qualified major party candidate since _____.Burns answered that there s never been anyone less qualified than Trump.
He cites a Facebook page called Historians on Donald Trump, by saying all the historians on the page agree that Trump is completely unprecedented in having zero credentials for the presidency, and they are looking back throughout our history.When asked why Trump has so much support, Burns responded that it was essentially xenophobia and overall fear: I think we are susceptible because of these changing times to a message of fear and easy solutions.
There are no easy solutions, but he denigrates the much-maligned but very subtle art of governance.
Burns continued that politics are messy but that politicians need to know how to get stuff done.
That s when he delivered his most brutal blow to Trump: You need somebody who actually knows how to get it done and who doesn t just lie 200 or 300 times a day.
Here s the video:.
@KenBurns on Trump: You need somebody who actually knows how to get it done and doesn t just lie 200-300x a day https://t.co/cybRQlZTWA Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) August 1, 2016Obviously, Burns is far from the only person saying that Trump is wildly unfit for the job as leader of the free world.
In fact, if I were on one of Trump s boards of directors, I d wonder if he was fit to run a lemonade stand, but Burns words matter because he is a student of history, and he is not one to talk just to hear the sound of his own voice.
He might have been slightly exaggerating when he said Trump lied 200 300 times a day, but according to Politifact, when Trump moves his lips, it s generally to lie.