Hillary pretends to care about the Black community.
If she cared so much, why is she so willing to carry out the legacy of black genocide by Planned Parenthood founder and white supremacist Margaret Sanger?
If she really cared about the Black community, why is she not fighting taxpayer funded Planned Parenthood abortion clinics on every inner-city corner in America?
Planned Parenthood is the largest abortion provider in America.
78% of their clinics are in minority communities.
Blacks make up 12% of the population, but 35% of the abortions in America.
Colored people are like human weeds and are to be exterminated.
Margaret Sanger, Planned Parenthood founderDonald Trump made a bold move today that proves his commitment to the Black community.
Trump issued a call to make permanent the Hyde Amendment that bans almost all federal taxpayer funding of abortions and is credited with saving the lives of over 1 million Americans from abortion.
Trump- s call comes as Hillary Clinton is campaigning in reversing Hyde and forcing Americans to fund free abortions for women with their tax dollars.Every year, Congress is forced to fight the battle to protect Americans from being forced to pay for abortions with their tax dollars.
Democrats annually fight the pro-life budget provision and hope they can eventually reverse it should they take control of both the White House and Congress.That has led to pro-life groups calling to the adoption of a permanent law putting Hyde in place long-term and making it more difficult for pro-abortion forces to reverse.
Today, Trump announced his support for such a law.The call for banning taxpayer funding of abortions comes in a new letter from Trump.
Trump commits to a new policy: Making the Hyde Amendment permanent law to protect taxpayers from having to pay for abortions.
Hillary Clinton s unwavering commitment to advancing taxpayer-funded abortion on-demand stands in stark contrast to the commitments I ve made, Trump writes, to advance the rights of unborn children and their mothers when elected president.
Via: Life News