Very outspoken Bernie Sanders supporter Seth MacFarlane recently told the Jason Rantz Show a few things he d like to see out of he fellow Bernie supporters.
The Family Guy creator knows that you can be fervent in your support for a candidate without losing sight of the bigger picture.He said: I actually am one of the people who has been a little disappointed at the way that, not necessarily the campaign, the supporters of the campaign have treated Hillary.
I think she s been treated a little harshly by the left.
Then making a comparison with those on the right side of the aisle, a party who s lost their damn mind in regards to Trump, a man who they are actually putting forward with all seriousness for president, MacFarlane said: That party has lost some control.
This is a guy who is the result of a lot of bigotry gone wild.
On the other hand, my side, the left, has gotten a little unreasonable when it comes to separating the trivial from the profound.
He added later: The problem is if we don t pick our battles, then we look unreasonable.
And I think that s part of where Trump has come from because we have not been able to separate things that are injustices from things that we re just offended by.
And it s troubling.
MacFarlane seems to know that every ounce of hate thrown at Hillary Clinton is an ounce of ammunition that may be used later.
He also knows that when there s no clear distinction between arguments that are serious versus those that are petty and ridiculous, it only serves to hurt the candidate you re trying to support.
In essence, many Bernie supporters are actually helping Trump, because they re validating that same sort of rhetoric that is being seen from his supporters as well.At the end of the day, we need to remember that a Democrat needs to win the White House in November.
Whether that candidate is Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton, we need to vote blue no matter who.
It s our best shot at retaining sanity within the Oval Office.Featured Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images