Donald Trump s hopes and dreams of building a big, beautiful wall along our Southern border sound great to the poorly educated people he credits with his success.
But, unfortunately for them, reality is a thing.
In an interview with Jorge Ramos on Thursday, former Mexican President Vicente Fox made it very clear that The Donald would not be building any wall with Mexico s money, no matter how many promises he makes to the methamphetamine-fueled, mindless droves of subhuman, unwashed vermin who back him.Recently, the Trump campaign touted his support among Hispanics in Nevada, failing to mention that the 46 percent of Hispanics he attracted only included GOP voters in other words, a group of people science says is lacking in the smarts department.
Since there were only 125 people who identified as Latino in the state, and the exit poll had a margin of error of 10% because of the tiny sample size, the reality is that a meaningless number of Hispanic people actually support Trump.
I d like to know who those Hispanics are, Fox said of Trump s inflated number, urging even those individuals to open their eyes : Please, you Hispanics, Latinos in the U.S., open your eyes.
It s not to defend our race.
Not to defend our creed.
It s to defend this very same nation that is hosting you.
This nation is going to fail if it goes into the hands of a crazy guy.
As for the wall, Fox made it very clear that he nor anyone from Mexico will be paying for Trump s signature policy symbol:Fox is not the first former Mexican leader to speak out against Trump s hatred.
Earlier this month, former President Felipe Calderon told Trump where to stick it: We are not going to pay any single cent for such a stupid wall!
And it s going to be completely useless.
No offense, no offense to America.
So Donald Trump is ambitious but not exactly very well-informed man, I don t want to say ignorant, but he is not very well informed.
Naturally, after having a SECOND leader from our neighbor to the South inform him that his make Mexico pay for the wall idea isn t going to pan out, Trump is a little angry.
Taking to Twitter, The Donald demanded that Fox apologize for hurting his wall s feelings.FMR PRES of Mexico, Vicente Fox horribly used the F word when discussing the wall.
He must apologize!
If I did that there would be a uproar!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2016It s pretty clear that Trump isn t going to get to build his wall at least not with Mexico, money.
It s up to the rest of us to ensure that he doesn t find himself in a position that it becomes a serious possibility.Watch the interview below:Featured image via screengrab