Being a middle-aged man whose only experience with Miley Cyrus is a daughter raised on Hannah Montana and a dislike for her music, I was surprised to find out what an incredible person she s grown into.
It wasn t until I came across a post on her Instagram account about one Donald J. Trump that was less than flattering that I decided to take a look at just who she s become.It wasn t long before I found myself feeling terrible about the way I ve allowed a pre-conceived notion about a pop/country singer whose voice I don t like stand in the way of admiring an absolutely remarkable young woman.
Ms. Cyrus currently supports 41 charities and 30 causes, most of which are favorites of liberals like me.
On top of that, Miley is possibly the most outspoken voice against Donald Trump I ve heard to date.Miley s Instagram account is chock full of shots at the Donald, which he apparently isn t taking seriously considering his lack of drunken rants towards her on Twitter.
Little does The Donald know that Miley Cyrus may seem like a mere nuisance to be swatted away, but her age and popularity paint the picture of a youngster who can impact The Donald s ability to secure the youth vote.
Her latest post, for example, is pushing 200K likes on the increasingly popular social media platform, showing that this is one woman not to be trifled with: Trump can't stop won't stop saying stupid ass sexist shit!!!!
Comparing two women!
Are you fucking kidding!
We will not allow you to destroy everything we have overcome as women!
I feel as though we are stronger than ever as a unit.
We have an understanding and respect for one another (more than trump can say about anyone, his fellow candidates, other races and religions , other public figures , just HUMAN BEINGS in general, and of course animals!
Check out his family hunting photos!!!!)
it's absolute insanity that this has gone on this long and far!
Wake me up from this nightmare someone PLEASE!A photo posted by Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Mar 25, 2016 at 4:56am PDTTo listen to her speak makes me sorry I haven t paid more attention to what I must now consider an incredible voice.
Does that mean I ll be downloading Wrecking Ball from iTunes?
Certainly not, but the next time my now teenage daughter asks me if she can buy a Cyrus song, the answer will be: Absolutely, but before you do I d like you to take a look at the person behind that song; she s pretty fantastic.
Tolerance and the ability to learn is what separates liberals from conservatives.
If you re not a Miley Cyrus fan because you don t her music or her antics at the Video Music Awards, have a look into how she spends her time outside of work and you ll find a woman whose ideologies will hopefully help inspire a generation to better the world they live in.Featured image from Instagram