The tax-exempt Muslim group CAIR has ties to terrorism, and spends an enormous amount of energy lobbying to prevent states from disallowing Sharia Law.
They re now using their victim status, afforded to the by the left to say police officers facing the potential of mass riots should not be able to protect themselves Muslim activist group, the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), and the American Civil Liberties Union and others have formed a coalition questioning Cleveland police and their plan to use riot response equipment at the upcoming Republican Nation Convention.The groups will hold a press conference Monday to present their demands regarding the city s plans to buy riot equipment ahead of the Republican National Convention in July, The Cleveland Plain-Dealer reports.
The city received a $50 million grant to pay for additional security, though it is unclear how all that money will be spent.
The groups do not totally oppose riot equipment, but they are calling on the city to be more transparent about how money for security is being spent.
They also want all military type equipment to be decommissioned after the convention.Really?
Why?The city received the grant to buy riot gear, batons, steel barriers and to increase other security after warnings that the convention could see riots.
They say the equipment is especially warranted after a series of violent political rallies.
A Donald Trump rally in Chicago was cancelled when the crowd got out of control after anti-Trump protesters arrived.
Via: Daily CallerOnce the dust settled, last week s protest of a Donald Trump rally in Chicago demonstrated a growing nexus between Islamist groups in the United States and the radical leftist Black Lives Matter movement.This rhetoric of unity between these movements was clearly on display at the 2015 joint conference of the 2015 Muslim American Society (MAS) and the Islamic Circle of North America (ICNA).
MAS was described by federal prosecutors as the overt arm of the U.S. Muslim Brotherhood, and ICNA is recognized as the front for the Pakistani Islamist group Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) founded by one of the foremost thinkers on modern Jihad, Syed Abul A la Maududi.At the event, MAS leader Khalilah Sabra openly discussed the importance of Muslim support for Black Lives Matter, and urged revolution.
Comparing the situation in the United States to the Muslim Brotherhood-led Arab Spring revolutions, she asked, We are the community that staged a revolution across the world; if we can do that, why can t we have that revolution in America?
Reporting on this merging revolutionary alliance goes back as far as the first outbreak of disorder in Ferguson.
Few may recall the attendance at Michael Brown s funeral of CAIR executive director Nihad Awad.
Awad was identified in federal court as a member of the Palestine Committee, a covert group of Muslim Brothers dedicated to supporting Hamas in the United States.CAIR joined other groups named by federal law enforcement as Muslim Brotherhood organizations and lined up behind the Ferguson protests.In November of 2014, Fox News reported on an effort by CAIR Michigan Director Dawud Walid to link the death of Michael Brown at the hands of police and the death of Luqman Abdullah, a Detroit imam shot during an FBI raid.Abdullah was described by the FBI as a leader of a nationwide Islamic organization known as The Ummah, run by convicted cop-killer Jamil Abdullah Amin.
Abdullah s group engaged in criminal activity in order to raise funds in order for an effort to establish Sharia law in opposition to the U.S. government.Amin and CAIR have a long association together, with CAIR providing funding for Amin s legal defense, and issuing numerous press releases in support of the Georgia radical imam and former Black Panther.
Via: Counter Jihad Report