After eleventy billion investigations into Hillary Clinton, her handling of Benghazi, and the whole brouhaha over her emails, the GOP is getting desperate.
The FBI has been giving emails to the House Oversight Committee, and one Republican congressman is very unhappy about the way they re doing it.He wants to know just one simple thing why do the FBI s document releases coincide with federal holidays?Yes, that s an actual, official question that Rep. Michael Turner (R-OH) asked FBI director James Comey about how they re releasing information: Please explain how the FBI s procedures for processing documents and information to the public coincide with these Federal holidays, and how those procedures could be improved to ensure greater public awareness, and reduce the appearance of political motivations.
The FBI told the House that it would release information and documents as they became available, no matter the day of the week.
They had to know that could include weekends and holidays.
Some information was released over the Independence Day weekend (but not Independence Day itself), and more was released over the Labor Day weekend (but not Labor Day itself).
Coincidence, yes, but intentional?
Turner needs a lot more than that to accuse the FBI of playing politics.There are no words for how laughably nonsensical this is.Really, Turner s attempt to make this look like a political ploy on the part of the FBI is, in fact, a political ploy on his part, carried out on behalf of the Republicans who are terrified of Hillary.When the FBI decided not to press charges against Hillary for mishandling classified info, the House decided to open a new investigation into whether she lied under oath.
Anything to prove that she s a criminal in presidential clothing.
They also pushed to re-open the investigation into her private server recently, and there s a huge push to investigate whether there were improper dealings between the Clinton Foundation and the Department of State.If they have a legitimate case, they should pursue it in a legitimate manner.
Posing this kind of a question to the FBI just shows that they re more scared of Hillary than they re trying to let on.Featured image by Alex Wong/Getty Images