Isn t Alluha Akbar Islamic?
I m pretty sure these cowards aren t Christians.
Obama will still try to convince the world these nine armed terrorists have no affiliation with the religion of peace.
All kidding aside, please pray for the innocent people who are trapped inside this restaurant by these Islamic monsters DEVELOPING: A group of up to nine attackers set off bombs and took hostages while shouting Allahu Akbar inside a restaurant frequented by both locals and foreigners in a diplomatic zone in Bangladesh s capital, local media reported Friday.ISIS Amaq News Agency later reported that ISIS fighters carried out the attack.Bangladesh TV stations reported that the attackers entered the Holey Artisan Bakery in Dhaka s Gulshan area around 9:20 p.m. Friday and were holding customers and staff hostage.The exact number of hostages was not known.
While some reports said there could be up to 60, others put the figure lower.The TV reports said the identities of the attackers were not immediately known.The U.S. State Department said all Americans working at the U.S. mission in the area had been accounted for, according to Reuters.
We have accounted for all Americans working for the chiefof mission authority in Dhaka, John Kirby, a State Department spokesman said.
He called the situation fluid.
The reports say a huge contingent of security guards cordoned off the area and the restaurant as they traded gunfire with the attackers who set off explosions.Jamuna Television reported, quoting a kitchen staff worker at the restaurant who escaped the attack, said that the gunmen chanted Allahu Akbar as they launched the attack.Sumon Reza, the worker, told The Daily Star that several armed men entered the restaurant and took hostages.
They blasted several crude bombs, causing wide-scale panic among everyone.
Benazir Ahmed, director general of the elite anti-crime force Rapid Action Battalion or RAB, told reporters that security forces were working to save the lives of the people trapped inside.
Several foreigners are believed to be among the hostages.
Some derailed youths have entered the restaurant and launched the attack.
We have talked to some of the people who fled the restaurant after the attack.
We want to resolve this peacefully.
We are trying to talk to the attackers, we want to listen to them about what they want, Ahmed said.
Via: FOX News