House Speaker Paul Ryan has endorsed Donald Trump for president, but it is clear that he wishes he hadn t felt like he had to do so.
First, Ryan had to condemn Trump s ban on Muslims, before the GOP primary was even over.
Then, he had to speak out again when Trump refused to immediately disavow David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan.
After that, he had to speak out against Trump s racist statements regarding Judge Gonzalo Curiel s heritage.
And now, the presumptive nominee has tweeted out an image of Hillary Clinton with a Star of David over a pile of cash, and once again, Speaker Ryan finds himself in a flap regarding Trump s obvious and repeated bigotry.Speaking with the Charlie Sykes radio show on Tuesday, Ryan said of the racist tweeting: Look, anti-Semitic images have no place in a presidential campaign.
Ryan went on to condemn the tweet as anti-semitic and ridiculous, while criticizing Trump s activities overall, and saying the volume of ridiculousness was that he couldn t stop to comment on every crazy thing Trump does: If I had to stop everything to comment on every ridiculous tweet sent out by this campaign, I wouldn t have time to do anything.
I really believe he s gotta clean up the way his new media works.
Here is a transcript of the entire exchange, via Media Matters:CHARLIE SYKES (HOST): I have to ask you about this, the headline on The Huffington Post right now is, GOP Leaders Totally Ignored Donald Trump s Anti-Semitic Clinton Tweet.
The image, which Trump later took down, showed the Democratic presidential candidate s face next to a star of David that read, most corrupt candidate ever.
The anti-defamation league denounced the tweet.
Clinton called it blatantly anti-Semitic.
Your reaction to Donald Trump s use of that image?SPEAKER PAUL RYAN: Look, anti-Semitic images have no place in a presidential campaign.
Candidates should know that.
The tweet has been deleted.
I don t know what flunky put this up there.
They obviously have to fix that.
We have to get back to the issues that matter to the public.
I was doing the Kenosha parade, the Marine parade, grilling brats with volunteers and families, if I had to stop everything and comment to a ridiculous tweet sent out by this campaign I would have no time for anything else.SYKES: Yeah, well, this is like the fifth time though that Donald Trump, who you are supporting let me remind you.RYAN: I know, you have reminded me this.SYKES: I know.
But has tweeted something that at some point does Reince Priebus or somebody else need to get him on the phone and say, Mr. Trump you have got to stop tweeting these things.
These things are no longer accidents.
RYAN: Yeah, I really believe he needs to clean up the way his new media works.
Most importantly, as you know, one of the few times I spoke out against him during the primary very forcefully was in this area.
When he failed to disavow supremacists, white supremacists.
So look, I think this is really really clear, the point is, I think he needs to clean this up.
My understanding this was done by staff not by he himself.
More importantly they got to clean this thing up.Well, Paul Ryan is right there.
He can t keep up with every racist thing Trump does.
After all, Trump and/or his campaign staffers tweet insanely bigoted things in one variety or another on an almost daily basis at this point.
It s like David Duke himself is running that campaign.
However, the thing that Ryan needs to do is this: publicly rescind his endorsement of Donald Trump.
He s clearly a bigot of the first order, and therefore has absolutely NO BUSINESS being president of the United States.
This isn t about cleaning up social media.
It s about clear, deliberate, and obvious bigotry.Paul Ryan and the rest of the GOP know this, but instead they keep pushing for a literal bigoted fascist to become the next leader of the free world.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images