Seldom in life are there truly head scratching moments that make you question all life and sanity, but Donald Trump being nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize is definitely one of those moments.
And no, this isn t satire.According to the announcement of those who have been nominated: US Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump has also been nominated for the prize, according to Nobel watcher Kristian Berg Harpviken, the director of the Peace Research Institute of Oslo.According to a copy of the nomination letter Harpviken said he had received, brash tycoon Trump who has attracted international condemnation by calling for a ban on Muslims entering the United States deserves the prize for his vigorous peace through strength ideology, used as a threat weapon of deterrence against radical Islam, ISIS, nuclear Iran and Communist China .
However, it was definitely made known that anyone can be nominated, so his nomination is not indicative of his actual actions and behavior.
Thousands of people around the world are allowed to make nominations for the Peace Prize, including members of parliament and government ministers, former laureates and some university professors.The Nobel Institute accepts all valid nominations, so having one s name on the list is not to be taken as a sign of approval.
Further proof that anyone, and I mean anyone, can be nominated can be found in the fact that right-wing radio host Rush Limbaugh was also nominated many years ago.Clearly, Trump shouldn t be a top contender considering his play for peace is through hate and war.
Which, of course, in fancy-speak would sound something like vigorous peace through strength .. but no, it s rather sanity through means of insanity, and it doesn t add up.Other nominees include Germany s Angela Merkel, Pope Francis, and the Greek islanders who helped desperate migrants.
Edward Snowden, the man who leaked intel for the sake of fame reform is also a contender.At the end of the day, anyone can be nominated, but it doesn t mean that they ll win.
However, the fact that Trump was even nominated is terrifying in and of itself.
We ll find out this October who actually takes home the prize.
Hopefully, it will go to someone most deserving.
Featured image: Flickr