21st Century Wire says Recently, Democrat Hawaii Congresswoman, Tulsi Gabbard, went on CNN s The Lead hosted by Jake Tapper, to talk about Donald Trump s foreign policy, and more importantly, to discuss the disturbing reality of US taxpayer support for armed militants and terrorists in places like Syria.
Instead of adulation for doing the honorable thing, she received a hostile reaction from one of CNN s many highly paid onscreen propagandists.
When asked by CNN s Jake Tapper (photo, right) about US Representative Tulsi Gabbard s recent visit to Trump Tower, she replied, My goal in going there, in receiving the invitation to speak to President-elect Trump was to speak specifically about the situation in Syria, the dangerous consequences of escalating the regime change war that the United States is fuelling there along with countries like Saudi Arabia, and Qatar, and Turkey are escalating that through a so-called no-fly zone or safe zone.
And urging him to end our regime change war there to stop funding both directly and indirectly groups that are working with Al Qaeda and ISIS.
And to stop funneling those dollars and weapons and other assistance through these others countries like Saudi Arabia who are directly supporting these terrorist groups who are supposed to be our enemy, who we re supposed to be fighting to defeat.
Visibly agitated by her answer, Tapper then asks Gabbard, herself an Iraq War veteran and a current member of the Hawaii National Guard, about her recent Bill introduced on the House floor last week entitled, the Stop Arming Terrorists Act, which proposes severe legal repercussions to any US officials or persons involved in the arming or funding, either directly or possibly indirectly, of terrorists overseas including the US-backed rebel terrorists currently operating in Syria.
What s key is that Gabbard points out that this activity is funded by the US taxpayer.
Not surprisingly, CNN has never before reported this side of the clandestine issue before.
Here s how their fascinating conversation transpired:TAPPER: And tell me about legislation.
You have a bill that you introduced today that would address loopholes.GABBARD: Yes.TAPPER: You say have allowed American taxpayer dollars to fund terror groups such as Al Qaeda and ISIS in Syria.
Are you are you suggesting that the U.S. government is funding these terrorist groups?GABBARD: I m not only suggesting it.
This is this is the reality that we re living in.TAPPER: Not directly, though.GABBARD: Most Americans you know, if you were I were to go and provide money, weapons, or support or whatever to a group like Al Qaeda or ISIS, you would immediately be thrown in Jail.
However, the U.S. government has been providing money, weapons, intel assistance and other types of support through the CIA, directly to these groups that are working with and are affiliated with Al Qaeda and ISIS.TAPPER: So, you re saying the CIA is giving money to groups in Syria, and those groups are working with Al-Nusra and ISIS.GABBARD: There are there have been numerous reports from The New York Times to the Wall Street Journal and other news outlets who have declared that these rebel groups have formed these battlefield alliances with Al Qaeda, that essentially is Al Qaeda groups are in charge of every single rebel group on the ground fighting in Syria to overthrow the Syrian government.Tapper goes on to act stunned and befuddled, insinuating that Gabbard is wrong as if Gabbard were somehow making up her accusations, as he becomes somewhat confused trying to manage CNN s complicated contrived narrative.
Tapper then insists that Obviously, they (US-funded rebel terrorists) are all fighting Assad.
Gabbard quickly calls out Tapper s clear attempt at US State Dept propaganda talking points management Here s the latter exchange:TAPPER: And the U.S. government says they vet the groups that they give money to very, very closely.
And that you re wrong, there are not alliances between groups at the American taxpayers fund and these other groups.
Obviously, they all are fighting Assad.GABBARD: I beg to differ.
Evidence has shown time and time again that that is not the case, that we are both directly and indirectly supporting these groups who are allied with or partnered with Al Qaeda and ISIS, in working to over throw the Syrian government of Assad.
And we ve also been providing that support through countries like Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Qatar to do that.
Gabbard s brave new legislation might be the most important and explosive development regarding Syrian Foreign Policy in Washington, but instead of pursuing this discussion, CNN s Tapper predictably tried to change the subject to Michael Flynn instead.Watch this incredible exchange here: 21WIRE has reported previously on the possibility that CNN is serving as a media adjunct to either the State Department, the Pentagon, NSA or the CIA (or a combination of the four).
Judging by Jake Tapper s dismissive reaction to the facts on the ground, and his attempt to discredit Gabbard live on air, only strengthens the case that CNN is peddling an agenda for those US departments and agencies.21WIRE also reported previously how CNN has clearly chosen to only air coverage favorable to what the network has claimed to be rebels in Syria, when in reality these were mostly terrorist fighting groups.
CNN s star reporter Clarissa Ward even went so far as to characterize terrorist suicide bombers in a sympathetic manner in her reports clearly designed to give positive PR to terrorists groups like Al Nusra Front who have been occupying East Aleppo since 2012.
Other actors in the field seemingly employed by CNN who are operating in clear support of terrorists in East Aleppo include one Bilal Abdul Karim an apparent US asset promoting jihadist extremism, together with Ward, producing what are clearly staged reports, alongside CNN s endless airing of unvetted, staged White Helmets imagery, passing it off to the viewing public as authentic video and photos supplied by nameless Syria activists .
21WIRE has recently revealed additional terrorist-links with the White Helmets, who are a US State Dept, British Foreign Office and EU-funded pseudo NGO.Throughout the west s proxy war against Syria, CNN has only reported the rebel/terrorist perspective, shamelessly portraying militant terrorists as moderate rebels and freedom fighters, while systematically demonizing any Syrian or Russian who is defending the nation-state of Syria.
This might explain Tapper s near contempt for Gabbard s accurate statements regarding US arming and funding of known terrorist groups in Syria.2016 was the year that CNN was exposed as perhaps the most corrupt mainstream media outlet in the United States.
A number of other leaked emails revealed an unprecedented level of media corruption and systematic partisan collusion between operatives at CNN and the Hillary Clinton Campaign a naked violation of every fundamental principle of nonobjective press practices.
In the leaked email exchanges, one could see gleeful Clinton campaign officials boasting about getting favorable news coverage from compliant mainstream media journalists with CNN being perhaps the worst offender.
Clinton staffers even went so far as to circulate names of journalists who were deemed friendly to their candidate.Among the notorious Wikileaks email dump was a CNN request to DNC staffers asking for questions to ask during a Wolf Blitzer interview with then GOP candidate Donald Trump.In another email on April 28, CNN operative Jason Seher, a writer for Jake Tapper s show The Lead on CNN, emailed DNC media coordinator Pablo Manriquez thanking him for working behind the scenes with CNN.In a separate conversation CNN s Seher, then thanked DNC insider Martinez for facilitating Luis coming on today, and bearing with us through a meelee of GOP nonsense and cancellations and all that.
Any particular points he ll want to make?
We re gonna stay Dem focused Perhaps the worst CNN violation of press independence was when the network s supposed chief political analyst , Gloria Borger, tried to get an interview with Clinton chief of staff John Podesta by assuring him of essentially softball questions.
I know John will have an exalted place in the campaign, and would love to chat with him about HRC, in a general way, not in a gotcha way re HRC, said Borger.
It would be about 10 mins, very general, about her as a person and a candidate.
What is most amazing about all of this, is that CNN executives refused to consider firing any of their personalities who have been implicated in open collusion with the Democratic party during one of the most crucial political contests in US history.In another leak provided to The Intercept by the source known as Gucifer 2.0, other CNN reporters discovered on the DNC s VIP List of media operatives counted on by the Clinton campaign included Kate Bouldan, Brianna Kielar, Jeff Zeleny, Sam Feist, David Chalian, John Berman, and Mark Preston.The only person who lost their paid position with CNN was the now disgraced political operative, Donna Brazile, currently still holding onto her gifted position as interim Chairwoman of the DNC who was also moonlighting for extra cash as contributor for CNN.
Brazile was also a Super Delegate for Hillary Clinton.
Podesta Email dumps exposed the fact that Brazile, a CNN contributor was caught giving Hillary s campaign debate questions in advance of CNN s Town Hall debate event.As a result, CNN s reputation as a trustworthy media outlets has been held in question by most of the public.When it comes to coverage of both the 2016 Election and the Syrian War, CNN has been on the wrong side of history and should not be trusted to give accurate and fair reporting regarding serious and important issues.
READ MORE MSM LIES AT: 21st Century Wire MSM Watch Files READ MORE SYRIA NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire Syria FilesSUPPORT 21WIRE SUBSCRIBE & BECOME A MEMBER @ 21WIRE.TV