Americans need to put American citizens first and dump Macy s. Macy s has a Customer Service Department phone number that should be ringing off the hook with Americans who love their country and are sick and tired of the left bullying us into submission.
Tell them it s time to put American citizens first and you appreciate Donald Trump standing up for LEGAL immigration: 1 (800) 289-6229 I ll be canceling my Macy s credit card today.
Macy s just lost its Magic #MakeAmericaGreatAgain .Dump Macy s!Real-estate mogul and GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump called for a boycott of Macy s on Wednesday after the retail company said it would drop Trump s products.
Earlier in the day, Macy s said it was snubbing Trump because of the disparaging characterizations he made about Mexican immigrants during his campaign launch.
Among other things, Trump accused Mexico of sending its rapists and drug dealers to the US.In addition to blasting Macy s in an official statement, Trump attacked Macy s in a series of tweets for being weak on border security : Those who believe in tight border security, stopping illegal immigration & SMART trade deals w/other countries should boycott @Macys.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 1, 2015For all of those who want to #MakeAmericaGreatAgain, boycott @Macys.
They are weak on border security & stopping illegal immigration.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 1, 2015Macy s is only the latest in a string of businesses that have cut ties with Trump in the past week.
NBC, Univision, and the Mexican media company Televisa all recently announced they would not show Trump s Miss Universe Organization beauty pageants because of his comments about immigrants.
When Mexico sends its people, they re not sending their best; they re not sending you, Trump said in his June announcement speech, according to a transcript.
They re sending people that have lots of problems, and they re bringing those problems with us.
They re bringing drugs.
They re bringing crime.
They re rapists.
And some, I assume, are good people.
Trump, who said he was criticizing the Mexican government and not its people, has aggressively responded to the companies that are ending their relationships with him.
He said he was suing Univision for $500 million.
He denounced NBC as weak.
And he insisted that he was the one cutting ties with Macy s not the other way around.He also argued that the Macy s snub proved how difficult it was for billionaires like him to seek political office.
I have always said that if you are successful, it is very hard to run for office, especially the office of president, he said in his Wednesday statement.
I have also continually stated that I am not beholden to anyone, and this includes NBC and Macy s. Clearly, NBC and Macy s support illegal immigration.
Trump products at Macy s include $70 dress shirts, $65 ties, and a fragrance called Success.
Via: Business Insider