This morning, a man drove his car into a crowd near the UK s parliament building and began attacking bystanders with a knife.
Across the ocean, America s conservative handled the scary situation with characteristic boorishness.
At the forefront of this despicable behavior was President Trump s own son.
British police hadn t even confirmed the number of dead before Donald Trump Jr used the attack as a pretext to promote Islamophobia on Twitter.While emergencies workers worked on the injured and police began piecing together what happened, Don Jr. decided his contribution would be to spread a vicious and pathetic lie about London s mayor.
Why would he focus on this man while the city was still in shock?
Because Mayor Sadiq Khan is Muslim.In a tweet, Don Jr. implied Khan was somehow sympathetic to terrorists, inaccurately quoting him as having said Terror attacks are part of living in big city [sic].
Don commented: You have got to be kidding me?!
You have to be kidding me?!
: Terror attacks are part of living in big city, says London Mayor Sadiq Khan https://t.co/uSm2pwRTjO Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) March 22, 2017Like clockwork, other conservative Trump-clingers began running with the quote as well.Will London's Muslim mayor, @SadiqKhan, once again say that Muslim terror attacks are just "part and parcel" of living in a major city?
Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) March 22, 2017Can't wait for London s Muslim Mayor to lecture us about how terror attacks are part and parcel of urban life again.
Faith J. Goldy ??
(@FaithGoldy) March 22, 2017The problem: The quote and the link used in Don Jr. s tweet are ludicrously wrong.
The real quote paints Khan as a man not sympathetic to terrorism but vigilant about stopping terrorism.
Here s the full quote given in 2016 to the Evening Standard: What I do know is that part and parcel of living in a great, global city is that you ve got to be prepared for these sort of things.
You ve got to be vigilant.
You ve got to support the police who do an incredibly hard job.
You ve got to support the security services and I think speculating when you don t know the facts is unwise.
In other words, Khan is doing all the things every mayor in every major city in the world is doing: Working to stop terrorism while knowing that a big city s size and landmarks make tempting targets.
Nowhere does he accept that terrorism is part and parcel of urban life.
Fighting it is.Don Jr has yet to express any condolences to the families of the victims.
He s so far tweeted exclusively about Muslims (including this lie about London s mayor).
The lack of basic decency seems to run in the family.
Don Jr. s dad once commented on the mass shooting in Orlando by infamously saying appreciate the congrats.
It s like every tragedy is seen not as a horrifying moment of pain and suffering for the victims but something to be exploited to further an agenda.
Don Jr desperately wants to smear Muslims and if it means lying about the mayor of the city that was just attacked, then that s what he ll do.Featured image via John Sommers II/Getty Images