A church treasurer from Ohio is going to jail for five years after blowing $800,000 of church funds on a decade-long drugs and sex rampage.
So much for that Christian Morality that Evangelicals argue makes them better than people of other faiths and none.61-year-old Garry Meyer was the trusted treasurer of Tri-County Baptist Church in West Chester Township, Ohio for 14 years.
What his church did not know, is that he was actually cooking the books, spending nearly a million dollars of church money on drugs, lavish holidays, expensive cars, pornography and high end escorts for more than a decade.While maintaining the pretense of a god-fearing, responsible, married father, Meyer lived a rock star lifestyle on the side and his church community picked up the tab.But, sadly for Meyer, his wife uncovered the crime.
Under pressure, he made a confession to the church.
The only problem was, he confessed to stealing $400,000.
Once the full investigation was complete, Meyer was exposed as a liar all over again.
The full sum stolen was twice that figure.Meyer s wife sobbed in the courtroom as her husband s exploits were exposed, and he was sentenced to five years in prison.
He told the court: There is no excuse for my actions, I also want to say I am sorry to my family.
I have caused unimaginable hurt and suffering, Turning to his wife, Meyer said: I am sorry for betraying your trust you have always been the best part of my life.
Meyer stole nearly a million dollars from his own congregation in order to fund a lifestyle to which his church is supposed to stand opposed.
Also speaking at Meyer s sentancing hearing was colleague Pastor Brian McManus, who said: Our church family has continued to pray for everyone involved in this very sad event.
The truth is, our life choices always come down to personal not religious morality.
A person bent on making the wrong decisions in life, will do so with or without the bible.
This lesson is everywhere from child-abusing priests, to chumps like Garry Meyer, and on to so-called Christian Conservative leaders who lay the sin of wrath upon anyone who fails to follow their warped Ayn Randian version of God.Featured image via video screen capture