Bristol Palin didn t go to Harvard Law School like President Obama or her frenemy Ted Cruz did.
She wants us to know this, apparently.
Someone, please get ahold of Bristol s personal assistant, email inbox, whatever she uses to keep in touch with the vast worldwide community she tries to communicate with on a daily basis, and tell her: WE ALREADY KNOW THIS, PRECIOUS.Pic via PatheosNevermind the fact that she forgot to use the word be, thereby automatically rendering her sentence structurally unsound.
That s less important.
Let s soak in for a moment the gist of what she s saying, that is, if it s even humanly possible.First, here s some context.
In a nutshell, Bristol is glad her mom has decided to endorse Donald Trump.
She s mad that Ted Cruz campaign spokesman Rick Tyler issued the following statement when rumors first started circling that Sarah Palin would throw her support behind the Donald: I think it [would] be a blow to Sarah Palin, because Sarah Palin has been a champion for the conservative cause, and if she was going to endorse Donald Trump, sadly, she would be endorsing someone who s held progressive views all their life on the sanctity of life, on marriage, on partial-birth abortion.
She then went on a long diatribe of how she likes Cruz after meeting him, but that this statement was just way over the line.
Cue the inspired I didn t go to Harvard Law School quote.
In other words, she s saying she knows a few things despite not knowing other things.Okay, we re done trying to understand Palin logic.
Our heads are starting to hurt.
Cue the internet reaction where she s currently getting the roasting of a lifetime for making the comment.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.Pic via Twitter.In all fairness, we finally do get what Bristol was trying to say: She s not that bright but is still going to speak up regardless.
In that respect, the apple doesn t seem to fall too far from the tree.
Perhaps next time she can say something like: I didn t get married, but I still know how to teach abstinence and make babies at the same time.
Featured image via Flickr