The media needs to keep grilling Republicans over Donald Trump s flirtation with Nazis, because it s clearly a sore spot.When RNC communications director Sean Spicer appeared on CNN with Wolf Blitzer on Tuesday night, he was apparently hoping for a softball interview.But Blitzer had other ideas and soon called out Trump for being quick to whine and condemn the diverse cast of Hamilton while being very slow to condemn neo-Nazis and white supremacists.Blitzer wanted to know why Trump won t just deliver a speech openly condemning these deplorable groups.
Spicer responded by saying that, At some point, you ve gotta take his position and move on!
Spicer said that Trump merely mentioning a disavowal should be enough and that he has made his position clear, but the problem is that Trump hasn t made it clear.
Every time he claims to disavow these groups he ends up blowing them a kiss by sharing their tweets or supporting a policy that they support.
In fact, these groups have become so emboldened by Trump that hate crimes have spiked since Election Day.Nazis and white supremacists are celebrating in the streets because they think Trump is the second coming of Hitler and that it will be open season on minorities across the country.Blitzer asked why these groups still support Trump even though he disavowed them, and Spicer threw a hissy fit.
I don t know!
he snapped.
That s really not my focus, figuring out why certain groups support him!
Blitzer pointed out that Trump has failed to condemn these groups unlike his consistent attacks on diverse groups like the cast of Hamilton for just merely passing on a message to Mike Pence.And Blitzer s persistence cause Spicer to lose his shit.
You ve asked me eight times, the same question!
I ve told you what his position is.
That s not his focus!
His focus is making this country better for all Americans, creating a better country, creating a better education system for all Americans, rebuilding our inner cities.
That s what his focus is.
So I get that you guys all want to ask the same question over and over again and make him denounce it eight ways to Sunday, but it s not what he wants to talk about!
Here s the video via YouTube.
The relevant remarks are at the 4:30 mark.The reason why these groups still support Trump is because his condemnation of them has been weak from the very beginning, so it seems like Trump is only saying the minimum to make it sound like he condemns them.
What Trump needs to do is deliver a speech to the entire country making it clear once and for all that he strongly condemns these groups and that he does not share their views nor will he help them pursue their hateful agenda.Featured Image: Screenshot