Donald Trump seems to be willfully ignorant when it comes to a Russian cyber-security threat.
He displayed this once again during the second presidential debate.Trump stated that he didn t know whether there was Russian involvement in regards to hacking and the election, but that s an outright lie.
U.S. intelligence has been briefing him on this very subject.According to NBC News: A senior U.S. intelligence official assured NBC News that cybersecurity and the Russian government s attempts to interfere in the 2016 election have been briefed to, and discussed extensively with, both parties candidates, surrogates and leadership, since mid-August.
To profess not to know at this point is willful misrepresentation, said the official.
The intelligence community has walked a very thin line in not taking sides, but both candidates have all the information they need to be crystal clear.
Thus proving, without a doubt, that Trump either has amnesia or willingly lied during the debate regarding cyber-security and Russia.During the debate Trump professed: I notice, anytime anything wrong happens, they like to say the Russians are [Hillary Clinton] doesn t know if it s the Russians doing the hacking.
Maybe there is no hacking.
But they always blame Russia.
And the reason they blame Russia because they think they re trying to tarnish me with Russia.
I know nothing about Russia.
Trump literally brought it back to himself that Hillary talking about Russia s hacking is all about him.
He needs to realize that Hillary brought it up to express the very critical point of increasing cyber-security.
You know, like an actual leader.In fact, going beyond the intelligence briefings that he is undoubtedly privy to, the U.S. Intelligence community made this statement public for all of us to know: The U.S. Intelligence Community (USIC) is confident that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from U.S. persons and institutions, including from U.S. political organizations.
So, this begs the question: Why is Trump either ignoring this issue or trying to protect Russia?Hillary brought up the fact that Trump may have Russian business ties, but we wouldn t know because he won t release his taxes.
Trump has already boasted how much he loves Russian President Vladimir Putin, and this blatant lie during the debate definitely seems suspect.In fact, according to the Washington Post: There is strong evidence that Trump s businesses have received significant funding from Russian investors.
Most notably, Trump s son Donald Trump Jr. made that very claim at a real estate conference in New York in 2008, saying Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets.
Donald Trump Jr. added, we see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.
Which leads many to believe that Trump s business ties may be the reason for his willful ignorance when it comes to cyber-security and Russia.We would definitely know more if the Republican candidate released his taxes.
However, knowing they ll likely be damaging, he ll probably keep those pretty close to his orange chest.Watch this report via NBC News regarding the hacks:Featured Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images