According to Donald Trump, Israel and Palestine get along just swell.
Sure, Benjamin Netanyahu is a genocidal monster who makes Civil War hero Andrew Jackson seem like a swell guy and Israel has been oppressing the Palestinian people for seemingly forever at this point, but The Donald thinks things are just fine over there.During a press conference with State of Palestine President Mahmoud Abbas, Trump praised the Palestinian National Authority for working so well with Israel a country whose army regularly slaughters Palestinian children.
I also applaud the Palestinian Authority s continued cooperation with Israel, Trump said.
They get along unbelievably well They work together beautifully.
Naturally, people who don t say MAGAMAGAMAGA repeatedly didn t quite get the memo that it s all sunshine and kittens over there:@JoeMyGod That s it.
It s official: he s batshit crazy.
Eric DeBlackmere (@AstronomerEric) May 3, 2017@JoeMyGod I keep telling myself it is too early to drink.
It s too early to drink.
His Dudeness (@ZJudkins) May 3, 2017@JoeMyGod Yeah, because Palestinians just love oppression, apartheid and their land being stolen.
Smh.
Jahn (@BDS_Girl) May 3, 2017@NBCPolitics And Jackson is is was a great leader during war between States.
tom baker (@tomsfrontporch) May 3, 2017Trump seems to be experiencing a psychotic break, he s not living in reality.
Trump: Israel & Palestinians work together beautifully Captain Truth (@TruthTeamOne) May 3, 2017Ultimately, though, Trump says Palestine is at fault for any strife with what is basically the equivalent of a noisy neighbor who sets up a target range in your backyard and uses your children as the targets, noting there can be no lasting peace until all Palestinian leaders speak out against hatred.Trump said nothing of Israeli leaders like former deputy speaker of the country s parliament, who cam under fire in recent years for calling for actual concentration camps.
In a 2014 Facebook post, Feiglin said that Palestinians should be concentrated in tent encampments and the formerly populated areas to be shelled with maximum fire power.
Any nests of resistance would then be exterminated in the event that any should remain.
Any civilians who are later allowed to stay in the area will be required to publicly sign a declaration of loyalty to Israel, and receive a blue ID card similar to that of the Arabs of East Jerusalem.
And, of course, similar to the special little badges Adolf Hitler made Jews wear.
With leadership like this, how can the Palestinians not want to cozy up to Israel, right?
Right?Watch Trump show he has no idea what the f*ck he s talking about below:Featured image via screengrab