As much as Donald Trump doesn t want to admit it, he s absolutely bombing in the polls with female voters, especially after his horrifically offensive, misogynistic comments about punishing women for seeking abortions.
Trump is hated by 70% of American women, and he s rapidly losing the conservative female vote as well.Although Trump chooses not to see his failings, everyone else can.
So much so that YouTube and Trump supporter Paul Ray Ramsey is actually giving the business mogul some advice on how to score points with women and make a comeback.
The problem is, Ramsey s suggestions help him fit into the misogynistic definition of a Trump supporter all too well: stop being an assh*le to women and just focus on seducing them.
Duh!Ramsey s disgraceful women-wooing tips were captured by David Futrelle, in which Ramsey praises the Republican front runner for being a ladies man , but notes that his hateful attitude toward women is hurting him more than helping.
Ramsey, who is a white supremacist and nationalist, tried to coach Trump when he said: I know you re a ladies man, your history, but just think about it like when you re meeting girls or trying to seduce them there s a couple of phases.
There is the attraction phase which you do well, you re funny, you re not a p*ssy, and girls like that.
But if you stay in that assh*le mode too long, you don t get into the comfort stage.And that s where you are now.
You need to get into the comfort stage of seduction of seducing American women and just be nice.
In other words, use pick-up artist techniques to simply woo women into supporting team Trump!
Nevermind all of the sexist, misogynistic things he s said, or all the attacks Trump has made on women since his campaign started women will come out to support Trump in droves if only The Donald would turn on his special alpha male charm.
Ramsey clearly, deeply believes that American women are that stupid.
He continued: I like your edge, I m not saying you should get rid of that, and no one is going to think you re some beta male, but you ve got to add some of that comfort.
The only useful and somewhat reasonable advice Ramsey gave Trump was to not act butthurt if you lose the election.
If Trump and his supporters take anything from this idiot s rant, let s hope it s that part.You can listen to the audio below, via We Hunted the Mammoth:It s no wonder Ramsey likes Trump so much, and is so interested in helping the GOPer capture women s votes he and Trump share the same anti-woman values.
Ramsey s disgusting attitude toward women voters goes way back, just like Trump.
In 2009, Ramsey was caught promoting white nationalism and saying that women s suffrage was responsible for many of the issues in society.
In a blog post from 2010 on a men s rights site, Ramsey condemned the 1920 extension of voting rights to women.
He wrote: Single mothers, rampant divorce, abortion and falling birth rates are part of the cancer that is destroying what is left of Western Civilization.
But very few people (even conservatives) fail to realize that the inception of this cancer can be found in the passage of the 19th amendment.
If Trump and Ramsey ever met each other, they would probably become best friends within seconds.
Featured image via screen capture