The big wigs of business are all in on the resettlement of Muslim refugees all over America.
There are 20 cities that have been chosen for their welcoming grant.
This is Soros money and corporate money to replace the American worker with foreign labor.
It s legal AND illegal workers who re provided sanctuary.
Is your town on the list?Bob Iger, Rupert Murdock, Michael Bloomberg and Bill Marriott are just a few of the corporate execs working to help cities become sanctuaries for migrants legal and illegal while offering money to propagate a rosy view of immigrants impact on the economy.
The corporate honchos led by Bloomberg and Disney s Iger have teamed up with the nation s mayors in an organization called the Partnership for a New American Economy.PNAE announced March 29 it has picked 20 cities from among dozens of competing applications for a grant program based on their welcoming attitude toward immigrants, refugees and other New Americans.
The 20 cities awarded the Gateways for Growth Award are: Akron and Summit County, Ohio Anchorage, Alaska Birmingham, Alabama Brownsville, Texas Columbus, Ohio Detroit Fargo, North Dakota Houston Indianapolis Kansas City, Kansas/Missouri Lancaster, Pennsylvania Los Angeles Macomb County, Michigan Nashville, Tennessee New Orleans Phoenix and the state of Arizona Pittsburgh San Jose, California Salt Lake County, Utah Upstate New York region (Syracuse/Buffalo)At least half are already considered sanctuary cities and the others will be moving in that direction based on their willingness to compete for a grant that requires greater inclusiveness and cultural diversity.To be eligible for the grants a nonprofit had to partner with either a local government or Chamber of Commerce.
The grants are to be used primarily for educating the public on the merits of expanded immigration.PNAE works with the George Soros-funded groups National Immigration Forum and Welcoming America to educate Americans about the wonders of mass immigration.
They say it creates economic growth and vitality and the more immigrants and refugees that flow into a city, state or county the more prosperity they can expect to enjoy.
These communities are leaders in the broader and growing trend to be more inclusive, countering the narrative often heard in the mainstream news, says David Lubell, who started Welcoming America in Nashville several years ago with seed money from Soros.
Inclusive economic growth strategies that take into account both U.S. and foreign-born communities make cities more vibrant, attractive places for all residents to live, work, and thrive.
Lubell s organization is hosting a national strategy session April 19-21 in Atlanta in which it will share techniques on how to build welcoming community campaigns.
Read more: wnd