The media hyped the fact that Donald Trump used a teleprompter during his speech on Tuesday night after winning the final slate of Republican primaries (with no opposition).
The speech was more sober and low energy than most Trump speeches have been, and used more sophisticated language than Trump s traditional events.But he still stuck his foot in it.During the speech, Trump made a reference to helping our African-American people who live in the inner city that have been mistreated for so long.Coming just a few days after referring to a black man in one of his rallies as my African-American, the comment hit a sour note for many people, especially as it sounded like a possessive reference to ownership.Twitter users took Trump to task for the comment almost immediately after he said it:Trump: It's gonna be great.
We are going to give "our African American people" 3/5 of a vote.
jeremy scahill (@jeremyscahill) June 8, 2016"Our African American people" pic.twitter.com/WmBc1Er1mq Smooth Kobra (@smoothkobra) June 8, 2016@ljoywilliams correction Trump said we will take care of "our African American " As if we are property.
"Our" wtf!
Curtis D. Young (@curtisdyoung) June 8, 2016Donald Trump: "We are going to take care of our African American people.
Us: pic.twitter.com/scV8uKGUN2 Black Wildcat (@Midwest_KZ) June 8, 2016"Our African American people pic.twitter.com/oyI604JINe Devin Gifford (@dgiff_) June 8, 2016hhhhhh" We are going to take care of our #African_American people!"
Donald Trump.
pic.twitter.com/43JHXdYg2I solgem ofiko (@SolgemOfiko) June 8, 2016"We're going to take care of OUR African American people " Trump pic.twitter.com/hlne5gYSdK Misty Knight's Afro (@Steph_I_Will) June 8, 2016Even a conservative radio host, Hugh Hewitt, thought the Trump statement sounded bad:Even Hugh Hewitt cringed at Trump's "our African American" line pic.twitter.com/jvESXXUSa1 Andrew Lawrence (@ndrew_lawrence) June 8, 2016Trump has used his campaign to repeatedly attack and belittle minorities in America.
He described Mexican immigrants as criminals and rapists, while also calling for a ban on Muslim travel to the United States.His campaign has also received support from white supremacists, who have bankrolled robocalls in his favor and a super PAC backing his election.
Trump was endorsed by notorious former klansman David Duke and his campaign arranged for a white supremacist radio show to get credentials to cover them.Trump even rejected multiple opportunities in an interview with CNN s Jake Tapper to denounce and reject support from Duke.
Instead he stubbornly tried to deflect the question.His most diehard supporters have echoed Trump s rhetoric, while the most extreme have even assaulted black protesters at his rallies, and in one instance a Latino man was beat up and assaulted by a pair of men who cited Trump as they engaged in violence.So, tell us again how The Donald is not a racist.Featured image via YouTube