The Watergate scandal is considered one of the worst political scandals in American history, but Donald Trump has already done worse.Former President Richard Nixon lied to Congress and the American people repeatedly.
He had an enemies list and tried to obstruct the investigation to cover up his involvement.Carl Bernstein is one of the reporters who broke the scandal wide open back in the 1970s.
His reporting helped spur an investigation would would lead Nixon to resign rather than face being the first president ever removed from office via impeachment.And according to Bernstein, Trump is way worse than Nixon ever was.On Friday, Trump accused several media outlets of committing treason because they have relentlessly reported on Trump s chaotic administration.
Thanks to leaks provided by staffers, the people know how Trump acts behind the curtain and what unconstitutional things he is planning to do.Trump, of course, hates the media for reporting the facts.
So he called them fake news and the enemy of the American people.
The FAKE NEWS media (failing @nytimes, @NBCNews, @ABC, @CBS, @CNN) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2017Trump constantly lies every time he opens his mouth and the above tweet demonstrates that he has a list of enemies like Nixon did.
Trump s ties with Russia have even become a major scandal, especially since Mike Flynn resigned in disgrace after contacting Russia about sanctions prior to President Obama leaving office and lying about it.
Also, Russia hacked into the DNC on Trump s behalf to help him win the election, just as Nixon had people break into DNC Headquarters in 1972.On Saturday, Bernstein made it clear that Donald Trump is more dangerous and treacherous than Nixon.The most dangerous enemy of the people is presidential lying always.
Attacks on press by @realDonaldTrump more treacherous than Nixon s. Carl Bernstein (@carlbernstein) February 18, 2017Real news (not fake) is that @realDonaldTrump trying to make conduct of press the issue instead of egregious (and unhinged)conduct of POTUS.
Carl Bernstein (@carlbernstein) February 18, 2017When focus of press was on Hillary s server by same fake news orgs/ enemies of the people cited by @realDonaldTrump he saw patriots.
Carl Bernstein (@carlbernstein) February 18, 2017Trump s hypocrisy, lies, shady deals with Russia and Putin, and war on the free press makes him an enemy of the people.
He should not only be impeached, he should be tried and convicted of crimes against the United States and denied the protection of a presidential pardon.
He should be in prison, not the White House.Featured image via Andrew Harrer-Pool/Getty Images