A veteran has launched a GoFundMe fundraiser that is being advertised as a way for Donald Trump to earn a Purple Heart service medal the hard way.
The fundraiser was started by Lieutenant Cameron H. Kerr, a veteran who lost his leg while serving overseas in Afghanistan.Kerr writes that he decided to launch the fundraiser after Trump was handed a Purple Heart by a veteran supporter of his at a campaign event.
After receiving the medal, Trump stated that he has always wanted to get the Purple Heart, and that this was much easier.
As Kerr notes, Trump s comments were made just days after he began verbally attacking the family of a Muslim service member who lost his life while in combat.
The family spoke out against Trump at the DNC and have been hammering Trump in public ever since then.Kerr writes on the GoFundMe page: As with seemingly everything else in his life, Mr. Trump got one handed to him instead of earning it.
That being said, as a Purple Heart recipient who earned one the old-fashioned way by returning from Afghanistan one leg lighter, I fully endorse his desire to earn one and would happily oblige his interest in doing so, by being one of the first to chip in to fly him to the conflict zone of his choosing.
After all, you re never too old to follow your dreams.
Kerr doesn t actually intend on using the money raised to fly Trump to a combat zone.
Instead, he plans on donating the funds to organizations that help refugees.
The organizations are ones that Trump would probably despise.
Particularly the International Rescue Committee, an organization that helps newly arrived refugees in the United States.Kerr has a goal of raising $50,000 dollars.
At the time of this writing, the GoFundMe has received more than $26,000 dollars in just three days.
Kerr is officially promoting the fundraiser with the hashtag, #PurpleTrumpsOrange.As the radical right-wing begins to become ever more so brazen with their schemes to tear the U.S. apart and leave behind it s carcass to ravaged by the billionaire class, it s good to see people fighting back with humor and positivity.
Who knows, maybe by the time the general election is over and after he is defeated, Trump s mouth will have rallied enough kind people in this nation to actually make it great this time for the all those too marginalized to claim it ever truly has been.Featured image from Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images