Donald Trump has been consumed with a seething anger and frustration lately that s slipping into everything he does.
This week, his Twitter messages rose to an even more disgusting level of vitriol as the scandals and crimes his administration has perpetuated continue to come to light.
On Father s Day, a time most Americans were taking as an opportunity to honor and remember their dads, Trump was on Twitter lying about Obama.The new Rasmussen Poll, one of the most accurate in the 2016 Election, just out with a Trump 50% Approval Rating.That's higher than O's #'s!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 18, 2017This is in line with what sources are telling reporters.
According to aides, Trump is barely coherent, ranting at television screens and mad at the people investigating him.Trump advisers and confidants describe the president as increasingly angry over the investigation, yelling at television sets in the White House carrying coverage and insisting he is the target of a conspiracy to discredit and potentially end his presidency.
Some of his ire is aimed at Rosenstein and investigative special counsel Robert Mueller, both of whom the president believes are biased against him, associates say.Meanwhile, former President Obama whose popularity has only risen since handing the office over to Trump put on a masterclass of how to handle a simple Father s Day tweet.
(Hint: Instead of ranting and raving, try talking about the positive relationship you have with your kids.
)Of all that I've done in my life, I'm most proud to be Sasha and Malia's dad.
To all those lucky enough to be a dad, Happy Father's Day!
https://t.co/ya1YAJignC Barack Obama (@BarackObama) June 18, 2017The contrast is telling.
Trump is most proud of an (outlier) poll saying he s at 50% approval.
(His real number is closer to 38%.)
Obama is most proud of his kids, Sasha and Malia.And lest Trump supporters think Obama is only doing this now that he s retired here s how Obama marked Father s Day last year while president.Happy Father's Day to all the dads out there.
Glad to be spending this one with my family in Yosemite.
https://t.co/SaNJgmoIK1 President Obama (@POTUS44) June 19, 2016Trump has yet to mention Father s Day at all.One final point that is sure to make Trump furious: Obama s message of love and affection for his family was retweeted by 35,000 people as of this writing.
Trump s unhinged rant about Obama s poll numbers got a measly third of that.Say it with me: Love trumps hate.Featured image via Olivier Douliery- Pool/Getty Images