Hey, you remember the GOPer who is responsible for the amendment to Trumpcare that allows states to obtain waivers to the provision that requires insurers to charge customers the same regardless of pre-existing conditions?
Well, in case you don t, his name is Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, and he s not very popular back home right now.The former health insurance executive was one of only two Republicans from his state to back Trump s signature deathcare legislation, even writing the amendment that allows insurers to bilk people with preexisting conditions out of more of their money than they will already be throwing at their increased premiums under the Republican plan.On Wednesday, MacArthur s constituents gathered to tear him a new orifice.MacArthur asked about pre-existing protection changes.
Audience: "If you have a pre-existing condition, stand up."
Most audience on feet.
pic.twitter.com/V4lhgGVX7q Dan Diamond (@ddiamond) May 10, 2017One attendee in particular stood out when he gave an emotional explanation of why MacArthur and all who think like him are absolutely awful.Geoff Ginter is a certified medical assistant and both of his kids have pre-existing conditions.
He also, for some reason, gets very angry when someone tries to kill his children:My wife was diagnosed with cancer when she was 40 years old.
She beat it, but every day every day she lives with it.
She thinks about it.
Every pain, every new something going on somewhere, is it coming back?
Is this cancer?
Do I have it again?
Is it gonna kill me this time?
Is it gonna take me away from my children?
Speaking of which: my children.
Both have pre-existing conditions from birth.
One cardiac, one thyroid.
You have been the single greatest threat to my family in the entire world.
You are the reason I stay up at night.
You are the reason that I cannot sleep.
What happens if I lose my job?He s right.
As of now, not just MacArthur but the entire GOP from top to bottom is the single greatest threat to all our families.
They are the reasons we stay up at night because they represent the worst that humanity has to offer.Watch it below, and try to figure out how MacArthur sleeps at night.
We can t.Man angrily tells MacArthur: "You have been the single greatest threat to my family."
Says GOP bill was dead until MacArthur resurrected it.
pic.twitter.com/U1O8vTwVBx Dan Diamond (@ddiamond) May 11, 2017Featured image via screengrab