Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz must really be getting nervous about his chances of snatching the GOP nomination from front runner Donald Trump because he s warning conservative voters that if they don t switch over to team Cruz, they re basically handing the election to Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton.Cruz made these comments during a radio interview on WPHT-AM Wednesday.
In speaking to host Chris Stigall, Cruz suggested that if voters were going to be stupid enough to nominate Trump to run against Clinton, they might as well just hand her the White House on a silver platter.
Cruz said: We have got to win and if Donald Trump is the nominee, it elects Hillary Clinton.
Every vote for Donald Trump is a vote for Hillary Clinton.
You might as well put a Hillary sticker on your car because Hillary wins by double-digits against Donald Trump.
Cruz is absolutely right about one thing and that s the fact that Clinton would sweep the debate floor with Trump, and right now she s destroying him in the polls.
There is no way the disgraced candidate and business mogul would even stand a chance against her.
But then Cruz begins to add some good old conservative wishful thinking to his rant, and reveals that HE is a good enough candidate to beat the former Secretary of State (even though he s currently losing to Trump).
Cruz said: I beat Hillary in the election and that s why Republicans are coming together and are uniting behind a positive, optimistic, conservative message to bring back jobs and economic growth, to defend the Constitution and Bill of Rights and to keep America safe and defeat radical Islamic terrorists.
Of course the Republican party is uniting under Cruz they know how dangerous Trump is for the GOP and will do anything to stop him at this point.
But unfortunately, they still haven t come to terms with the fact that the Democrats are going to have this election whether they like it or not.
At this point, conservatives are desperate and they re grasping at straws.You can listen to Cruz s threats in the interview below:Both Trump and Cruz are no match for Clinton or Sanders, and they ve spent most of this campaign cycle making each other look like fools.
They only have themselves to blame, and the GOP will have earned this loss.
Featured image via Darren Hauck / Getty Images