Political grandstanding has become a blood sport It s obvious that the CNN anchor set up the question so Dyson s answer could be to slaughter our president with his words shameful!
Professor Dyson and Mitt Romney (who supports Antifa) are CLUELESS!Dyson: This man is lethally ignorant, incapable of even having a kindergartner s comprehension of race.
For those who say look, the confederacy is about history and heritage, it is.
The history and heritage of racism!
The history and heritage of bigotry.
Building their sense of biological and in many cases theological and national identity upon a lie, a mythology of white supremacy.
The belief that some people are inherently superior and some people are inherently inferior.For the president then to defend the actions against taking down Robert E. Lee, or Stonewall Jackson remember, these people hated America enough to want the secede from it.
The people that we claim, black lives matter, the antifa movement and so on, are interested in preserving the fabric of America.
Mr. Miller says again, that there was violence there, but the problem is to equate that violence in reaction to the bigotry, with the bigotry itself is to misunderstand the fact that when you go to cancer treatment, the radiation is tough treatment, but it is meant to remove the cancer.So what he fails to understand and what the president especially fails to understand is that you are complicit with the worst currents of bigotry in this country when you try to draw a false equivalence between secessionists, racists and confederate defenders and bigots and Neo-Nazis and African-American and white people and others who have defended the rights of this nation to really seek a path of healing beyond the consternation we see now.
That s the problem with this president, he ain t got the right moral vision, he doesn t have the right words to express that moral vision and he lacks an understanding of American history.
This is the most illiterate, incompetent president in the history of this nation and it shows and it tells on him in the midst of this racial crisis where he is incapable of showing basic decent compassion for those who are vulnerable and who are victims of white supremacy in this country.
DOES HE REALLY BELIEVE THE BULL SH*T HE SPEWS?
IT S LIKE ONE BIG BOWL OF WORD SALAD HERE S ANTIFA IN ACTION: