On Tuesday s edition of The Nightly Show, Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders promised to steal the White House from Republican front runner Donald Trump if the two should ever face off in the presidential election.On the show, host Larry Wilmore asked Sanders what he thought about Trump s much-reported use of the word schlong to insult Hillary Clinton.
Sanders, making a joke out of Trump s numerous nonsensical remarks, said: I don t know the answer to that.
I have yet to recover from Trump s shock that women go to the bathroom.
I m still recovering from that, so schlonged, I haven t figured out yet.
Wilmore pressed on, asking Sanders if he would schlong The Donald if they went head to head for the presidency.
Sanders replied, Let me say, we will beat him badly.
How s that?
Wilmore also brought up the fact that someone had been writing anti-Trump messages in the sky last weekend, right above the Rose Bowl Parade.
Wilmore asked Sanders if he d had anything to do with it, since there had coincidentally been a rally for Sanders at the same time.
Sander responded with something we all know to be true: I don t have to spend money to make Donald Trump look dumb he does it all by himself.
You can watch Sanders roast The Donald below: The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore Get More: The Nightly Show Full Episodes,The Nightly Show on Facebook,The Nightly Show Video ArchiveIn later parts of the interview, Sanders took the opportunity to express his support for President Barack Obama s executive action on guns, blasting Republicans for trying to hold back an initiative that was so badly needed in America.
We re not getting any cooperation from the Republicans, no matter how many horrific mass shootings we see.
I think the most important thing we have to do now is to expand and improve the instant background check.
What the president is trying to do now is deal with the so-called gun show loophole.
Many of Sanders constituents in Vermont are responsible gun owners, but Sanders said they accept the dangers that can come with firearms and don t argue that policies must be in place to avoid their misuse.
People hunt and they do outdoor things that s what we do.
But the vast majority of the people understand, in my state, and I think around the country, that it s imperative that we do everything we can to keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have them.
Criminals (and) people who are mentally unstable should not own a gun.
That s my view, and there is a broad consensus around that.
Also touching on the Black Lives Matter movement, Sanders and Wilmore agreed that the media has blown controversial issues out of proportion.
Sanders said, I think white people are as appalled as African-Americans and Latinos in seeing what we re seeing on television, and that is unarmed people being killed while they re in police custody.
The Vermont senator, who has made criminal justice reform a crucial part of his campaign, also stressed that reducing police brutality would be one of his priorities as president: The first, and maybe most, important is to make sure that if a police officer breaks the law, that officer like any other public official must be held accountable.
Other things that we have to do is demilitarize many of our local police departments.
We have to make police departments look like the communities they serve, in terms of diversity.
What appalls me is that we have more people in jail today than any other country on Earth more than China, 2.2 million people and that s why we need real criminal justice reform.
We ve got to make sure that kids have jobs and education, rather than hanging out on street corners unemployed.
Featured image is a screenshot, via Raw Story