During Nancy Pelosi s remarks regarding President Trump s decision to pull out of the Paris Accord, Pelosi questioned whether President Trump s grandchildren breathe air!
I kid you not!
Can you imagine if a Republican had spoken like that about Obama s children?
The snark coming from Pelosi is palpable RUDE!
How is he [Trump] ever going to explain to his grandchildren what he did to the air they breathe?
Assuming they breathe air.
And I have to assume that is the case.
We all do, right?
Pelosi released a garbage statement after President Trump s announcement: San Francisco Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi issued the following statement after it was reported that the Trump Administration will pull out of the landmark, 195-signatory Paris Climate Accord that would significantly slow the progress of global warming: President Trump s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Accord is a stunning abdication of American leadership and a grave threat to our planet s future.
In walking away from this agreement, the President is denying scientific truths, removing safeguards that protect our health and our environment, protecting polluters and their dirty energy agenda, and threatening our national and global security.
The Paris Accord honors our collective moral responsibility to leave future generations with a planet that is clean, healthy and sustainable.
The agreement deploys the full force of governments around the world to halt the rise in carbon emissions that cause extreme climate events, including record droughts, horrific famines and devastating floods, in addition to thousands of deaths each year from asthma attacks and other air pollution-related diseases.
Rejecting the pact also sends a strong message to the marketplace to direct innovative, entrepreneurial investments in the clean energy economy elsewhere.
The majority of Americans in both parties know that climate change is real, and want clear, decisive action to arrest its dire effects.
Democrats will continue to support the strong action of states, cities and the private sector to halt the march of climate change, no matter how destructive and short-sighted the decisions of this Administration continue to be.