If you still don t think Trump supporters aren t Nazis, just remember that liberals aren t the ones calling for genocide.During a March for Trump rally in Arizona last weekend, Real News Network s Dan Cohen went to Maricopa County to engage with the rallygoers, and what he heard should horrify every American across the country.The Trump supporters were heard chanting in favor of imprisoning Hillary Clinton, even though Clinton was cleared by the FBI and investigations by Republicans have gone nowhere.
The chants were also despite the fact that Mike Pence used a private email to conduct public business and was hacked.So there were definitely a bunch of hypocrites at the Trump rally.But that s not all.When asked about Muslims in America, a couple of Trump supporters has strong racist feelings about them.
If you don t like it here, go to Syria, go to someplace else, one Trump supporter yelled.Another racist Trump supporter called for deporting them.
I don t want em, as a veteran I don t want em, let em go back home, the Trump supporter said.
If they ve got a problem, let Saudi Arabia take care of em.
The problem with Saudi Arabia is that it doesn t have the kind of religious freedom that we hold so dear.
Just as there are different sects of Christianity, there are different sects of Islam.
And not everyone is able to practice their religious beliefs freely in many nations in the Middle East.The replies from Trump supporters then took a scarier turn as attendees called for deporting Jews.The hate against Jews has apparently even spread to the children of right-wingers.
For instance, this is what a 13-year-old said: If she is Jewish, she should go back to her country.
Seriously.And then a Trump supporter called for imprisoning and committing genocide against liberals so that America can be a true conservative hell-hole.
I just want to let them know that I can t wait for the liberal genocide to begin, he said.
That s the way to make America great again.
Liberals are destroying the country.
So if Trump supporters had their way, freedom of religion would only apply to Christians, Anti-Semitism would sweep across the country, Muslims would be persecuted, and liberals would all be put in internment camps and killed in what would be a Holocaust in America.Here s the video via YouTube.The next time someone tells you it s wrong to compare Trump and his supporters to the Nazis, show them this.Featured Image: Jim Lo Pool/Getty Images