Earlier this month, the Trump campaign posted on its website an advertisement seeking election observers to monitor locations.
The move, which is unusual for private campaigns, comes from the irrational fear that should Hillary Clinton win, the election would be rigged.
So Trump s solution?
Have his rabid, conspiracy theory believing supporters intimidate voters in poll lines.In Pennsylvania, where polls have Clinton ahead by as much as nine points, Trump claims the only way Clinton could win is if she cheats or those in the Democratic Party rig the election in her favor.
So his initial call was to have his supporters monitor the stations in the predominantly black and minority -voting urban areas of the state.It was very reminiscent of the 1960s Jim Crow intimidation of the South.After facing some backlash for the dangerous and archaic call to suppress and intimidate voters, Trump doubled down on his claim that the election will be rigged and that supporters should watch the polling locations very closely on election day:You ve got to get every one of your friends.
You ve got to get every one of your family.
You ve got to get everybody to go out and watch.
And go out and vote.
And when I say watch, you know what I m talking about, right?
You know what I m taking about.
I think you got to go out and you got to watch.The question is just what should his people be watching for?
Should they be watching and observing people of color?
Should they be monitoring young, college-aged millenials?
Should they be asking voters their personal information so they can play Sherlock Holmes?Once again, Trump sounds his dog whistle.
When he tells his predominantly white audience, you know what I m talking about, the innuendo could not be more clear: watch, intimidate and disenfranchise minority voters.Of course, Republicans, who have been pushing the now widely debunked myth of rampant voter fraud, will be mum on this.
In justification, they will point to the said myth that is rampant voter fraud as why they support this dangerous, racist and damaging call to action.Trump s call to intimidate voters should be a warning to all Americans: don t get complacent.
Get out, vote, and take this monstrosity down.Featured image via Angelo Meredino/Getty Images