Thank goodness for a little common sense!
Adam Carolla is spot on in his rant over the ridiculous statue commission that the NYC Mayor has created to point out any oppressive landmarks in the city.
Here s his take on the idiocy of the censorship:Comedian Adam Carolla thinks Mayor Bill de Blasio s statue commission belongs in the toilet.He can t understand the outrage the mayor and others have toward historical statues displayed in cities but are mum about the art installation where people can poop on a golden toilet called America.
PHOTO BELOWThe Guggenheim wants you to crap all over America Here s a novel idea I would say to de Blaiso, I will support him and his statue quest if he supports the commission I put together to see what gets into the Guggenheim, Carolla quipped in an exclusive interview with the New York Post.Carolla s become an outspoken critic even testifying before Congress this year of Americans who get so easily offended that they want to shut down anything th ey deem controversial.He s making a movie about coddled college students who can t tolerate free speech on campus.GO SEE THIS GUY!He ll be in Brooklyn Nov. 29 for a show his with radio host Dennis Prager.
Carolla sees similarities between college uprisings over conservative speakers like Ann Coulter, Ben Shapiro and Milo Yiannopoulos and the current war against statues in the Big Apple.
How come the same people who are outraged over the Columbus statue have no feelings toward the golden toilet that people defecate in called America after so many people men and women, veterans have given their lives to that golden toilet, Carolla said.
Why no outrage in that department?!
PICTURED BELOW: THE STATUE WAS VANDALIZED WITH RED PAINT AND BLACK WRITING: HATE WILL NOT BE TOLERATED and #SOMETHINGSCOMINGThe Central Park Columbus statue was vandalized last week with red paint on the explorer s hands.
Meanwhile, de Blasio has vowed to find the city s oppressive landmarks and tag them for potential removal with a new commission: OPPRESSIVE MONUMENTS?
Mayor de Blasio named a diverse group of 18 artists, historians and other professionals to take hold of what s become a political hot potato.Hizzoner dubbed Ford Foundation President Darren Walker and the city s Department of Cultural Affairs commissioner Tom Finkelpearl as co-chairs of the panel.The body includes an anthropologist of the Native American Mohawk people, a historian of Chinese American people in New York, and the director of a gay and lesbian art museum.Longtime de Blasio supporter Harry Belafonte an entertainer and civil rights advocate who had a Manhattan library named in his honor in May was also tapped to join the commission.
Over the next 90 days, the commission will develop guidelines on how the City should address monuments seen as oppressive and inconsistent with the values of New York City, the mayor s office said in a press release on Friday.CAROLLA S IDEA:Carolla suggests keeping the statues but adding educational plaques around the controversial figures who were on the wrong side of history and maybe even a warning: You don t want this to be you one day.
Read more: NYP