The Congressional Black Caucus just broke it down for House Speaker Paul Ryan, explaining to him in no uncertain terms that Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) obviously can t be trusted and needs to be removed as chairman of the Intelligence Committee.
This action is necessary in order to meet the public s expectation that Congress conducts an impartial investigation into a matter that threatens the core of our democracy, the CBC wrote in a statement issued Wednesday.
Congressman Nunes recent actions have caused him to lose the confidence of members of his committee, and, more importantly, the American people, and he can no longer be trusted with the information that the committee receives.
Some lawmakers are calling for Nunes to recuse himself from the Russia investigation.
Others, like the CBC, are calling on Ryan to remove him as intel chair altogether.
The caucus is also demanding that a special bipartisan commission be formed to handle the probe into Russia s election meddling and Trump s possible collusion.
Congress must create an independent, bipartisan commission to expose the full truth about any and all Trump-Russia connections and collusion, the statement reads.
The American people want and deserve to know if their government has been compromised by the Kremlin.
The Black Caucus is not alone.
Democrats have been calling on Nunes to recuse himself from the investigation into Russia s interference in the presidential election.
He landed himself in hot water last week when he decided it would be a great idea to announce that intelligence on Donald Trump had been gathered accidentally while monitoring other people of interest, such as the Russian ambassador, without bothering to mention it to the committee first.All hell broke loose when Nunes then decided he should brief Trump on the matter.
To make matters worse, it later came out that he secretly visited the White House the night before the announcement was made, leading some to question where his information came from in the first place.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images