As we all know, Trump told Access Hollywood host Billy Bush in 2005 that he made unwanted advances on a married woman and bragged that he walks up to beautiful women and just starts kissing them and grab them by the p*ssy.
Seriously.
It s all on tape.
Had the tape been turned over to police they might have opened a sexual assault investigation.On Sunday morning, CNN anchor John King said that Trump should be in jail instead of being the Republican nominee for president.King began by playing part of the clip of Trump talking about how he pursued a married woman by taking her furniture shopping.
And then he talks about moving on that b*tch.
I said what you re about to see was some graphic language, King said.
That s one of the tamest parts.
And the point, if you go on in this tape, that s he s talking about making unwanted advances on a married woman.
He also talks about conduct that is a crime.
If he did it.
People go to jail for the things that he was talking about doing, groping women.
That was the dam opening.
Indeed, it is a crime and that why many Republicans are desperately trying to distance themselves from Trump.The outrage was so bad that Trump was forced to apologize for the remarks, but King noted that it took Trump s aides hours to get him to actually do it.
King proceeded to slam Trump for it and pointed out that what Trump said is not mere locker room talk.
It s a confession to committing crimes.
In his video released Saturday night, after it took his aides hours to convince him this was a big deal, that s important here too.
He doesn t say in the video that I never did this.
He never says he never did this.
I m going to say it one more time: he s bragging about things that people go to jail for.
I ve been to a lot of locker rooms.
Men say stupid things in locker rooms.
Men say inappropriate things in locker rooms.
Men do not talk about committing crimes in locker rooms or, if anybody brings it up, the grown-up on the team pushes that guy against the locker and tells him to shut up.
Here s the video via VidMe.In other words, Trump should have been investigated by law enforcement and should have been arrested, tried, sentenced to serve time in jail, and required to register as a sex offender.
He certainly should never have been elevated to the leadership of a major political party and been allowed to get this close to becoming the most powerful person in the world.
Republicans own this and they need to pay a price for it in November.Featured image via screenshot