Oregon Rep. Peter DeFazio took federal authorities to the woodshed on the House floor over their failure to do their job and arrest the armed terrorists led by Ammon Bundy.As you probably already know, Bundy and his band of right-wing militants illegally seized the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge two weeks ago.
Ever since then, they ve destroyed government property, snooped through government files, struck fear into the hearts of the local citizens, and have broken several laws in the process.
But law enforcement has done very little to remove the armed occupation, which is a stark contrast to the way law enforcement treats unarmed black men in this country.And DeFazio wants that to change right now.
The heat and the lights are on at the Malheur Wildlife Refuge, illegally occupied by ultra-rightwing anti-government extremists, but you gotta wonder if the lights are on or is anybody home down there at the Justice Department, DeFazio said.DeFazio then angrily demanded that federal authorities take down the militants and end the standoff so that people can move on with their lives.
Hello!
I don t think there s anybody there.
I believe that this illegal occupation, this destruction of federal property was directly emboldened by the fact that their father of the two leaders, Cliven Bundy, stood down the government two years ago when he owed a million dollars other ranchers paid their grazing fees, he refuses to do it.
And he was grazing in areas that were prohibited.
And he stood down the government at the point of a gun, and he s still grazing and nobody, nobody at the Justice Department has seen fit to raise a finger against him.He celebrated the anniversary of the takeover and said this is how it s done.
And now his sons are replicating that in my state of Oregon, where we abide by the laws.
Yeah, we disagree over a lot of federal policies, but we abide by the laws.It s time for the Justice Department to take some action.
Wake up down there!
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, so far, the only militants who have been arrested were caught driving a federal vehicle to town in search of snacks.
Meanwhile, the rest of the militants have been allowed to come and go as they please and they ve even been allowed to destroy federal fence lines and access government computers.
Furthermore, the militants broke the law by carrying firearms on federal property and their seizure of a government building is an act of domestic terrorism that should not be tolerated.If this were a group of African-Americans or Muslims, law enforcement would have already shot up the place and killed every one of them by now.
But because these gunmen are white rednecks, authorities are treating them with kid gloves, which perfectly demonstrates that law enforcement truly has different rules for different people.
These militants are costing taxpayers millions of dollars, and they are interrupting the daily lives of citizens who do not want them there.
Their actions are illegal and they should be treated like any other terrorist.
It s time for law enforcement to do the job they are paid to do or they should resign in disgrace so that we can hire people who will actually do it.Featured image via screen capture