Some people just don t understand freedom of religion whatsoever.
The First Amendment separates church from state for two reasons: to protect the church and the state.
Religious Freedom is the ability to worship how you choose on your own time.
However, if a public school, funded by public taxpayer dollars that is for all citizens regardless of religion, has something that puts one faith over another, that s not freedom, it s promoting a Theocracy.So, when the Freedom From Religion Foundation sent a letter about removing a Bible verse from a website to the Troup Independent School District in Troup, Texas mind you, a public school district open to all this sent many ill-informed people into a tizzy.One of those ill-informed people, who still has every right to worship her God on her time, is Brittany Taylor.
Taylor is the parent of two kids that go to Troup ISD.
She was beyond angry that the public school district would take down the Bible verse that read, As Goliath moved closer to attack, David quickly ran out to meet him.
She thinks that even though public and held to the Constitution to separate any church from any state-run place, the school should be able to promote Christianity.Taylor said: We support our school fully, they kind of had their hands tied in the situation.
We wanted to fight back for them.
There s literally nothing to fight back about.
Yet, what did she do?
Make T-Shirts that read Our God is bigger for students, including her own children, to wear.
She s literally putting out the argument that many often satirize of my God is bigger than your God in the clash over religion and religious freedom.Sam Grover, Freedom of Religion Foundation, said: Under the federal constitution, a government entity like a school district can t endorse one religious belief over others or religion generally over non religion.
Which is exactly correct.Quite honestly, her kids should be free to wear whatever they want, but the school itself cannot and should not promote any religion.
Public school is not a church, and thus not the time nor place for public worship of any God.
Yet everyone is still perfectly free to worship on their own time.
No one is losing any form of freedom.
No one.Of course, Taylor believes she s being told what to do, because you know, she doesn t understand how the Constitution actually works.
She said, It will be in our children s hearts and they will not stop praising God because a group told them to.
No one told your kids not to worship.
Nope.
Not at all, but okay.All that these parents are doing is making a point they clearly don t need to make.
But really, if you re gonna be stupid, the least you could do is leave your kids out of it.Watch the coverage of this story via KYTX: Featured image via video screen capture