Being a resident of the beautiful state of Maine myself, I have a special place in my heart for Stephen King.
His vocal opposition or rather downright hatred for Republican Governor Paul LePage has made him even more likable to those of us who have witnessed the second-term antics and complete disintegration of what little integrity Governor LeRampage had left.His first term was a nightmare.
His re-election was made possible by a third-party run from a rich buddy pretending to be a Democrat.
Watching him campaign on a platform of hatred for the poor and fear of the few thousand Somali refugees living in the Portland area was terrifying, especially when it became apparent that he would win a second term.In that second term, LeRampage has amped up his fight for the wealthy, essentially destroying the food stamp program and creating a quagmire of restrictions and red tape to sort through for any other kind of assistance that people have stopped bothering to try, opting instead to reverse Lepage s one victory as governor by increasing the crime rate that was at a 40-year low.People gotta eat.
When the governor takes away their means without providing an environment that creates sufficient jobs, they do whatever they can to feed themselves and their families.
They aren t running to the supermarket with the promise of lower property taxes for oceanfront millionaires.After LePage s latest racist rant sparked outrage around the country, Stephen King, whose tweets at LeRampage have earned him quite a few hearts and arrows on Twitter, sent this out on Sunday, tearing down what little dignity the governor may have had left:One must admit LePage has elevated assholery to a level far past the extraordinary and into a rarified sphere that might be termed divine.
Stephen King (@StephenKing) January 8, 2016Ahhhh The beauty of a Stephen King passage that will stand the test of time.
The man just has a way with words.
By taking everything the failed governor has ever done and reducing it to a single act of divine a**holery, King has summed up the feelings and frustrations of hundreds of thousands of Mainers who lament that they allowed this man to be elected, never mind re-elected.Thank you, Stephen King, for this wonderful tweet.
And for Pet Semetary.
Still one of my favorites.Featured image via Twitter