Bill Maher is definitely not afraid of Donald Trump.Ever since Trump was sworn-in on inauguration day he has been openly whining about media reports on the size of his inauguration crowd, insisting that his crowd was the largest in history despite photographic evidence that shows otherwise.Trump s inauguration was absolutely pathetic and his obsession with the crowd size only demonstrates that he is way too thin-skinned to be president.As you may recall, Trump took a moment during a visit to CIA Headquarters to claim that his crowd filled the National Mall and numbered at least 1.5 million.
He also threatened the media for reporting the real numbers.For the record, here s a side by side of President Obama s inauguration, which drew a record 1.8 million people compared to Trump s in 2017.
Both images were taken just as the swearing-in ceremony began.For those saying Trump can t be that hated, look at the size of the crowd #Inauguration pic.twitter.com/Sczp6Feta5 Stefan Kay (@5tefanK) January 20, 2017Trump even literally sent his official White House mouthpiece Sean Spicer to complain about media coverage of the inauguration in a press briefing.
And Trump is still complaining a week later.Well, Bill Maher returned just in time to mock Trump s inauguration last Friday but only got the chance to address Trump s bitching on this week s edition of Real Time.During the opening monologue, Maher absolutely NAILED the real reason why Trump is so upset about the small crowd size he drew on inauguration day.
He can t stand it that when it comes to the size of the crowd, Obama s was bigger.
This is about c*ck, right?
This is about d*ck!
This is about a guy who never brought a woman to orgasm!
He probably thinks it s rigged.
The rest of the monologue was funny, too, but Trump is going to explode after he hears that one joke.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is a petty loser who can t handle any amount of criticism.
If Trump reacts to Maher s monologue it is sure to be an epic temper tantrum the likes of which we haven t seen.Featured image via Joe Raedle/Getty Images