Conspiracy theories aren t something I take seriously very often.
The type of people who engage in conspiracy theories spend their time on Alex Jones site talking about false flags and how mass shootings are a hoax.
Fourteen years later, and they just can t admit that steel does in fact bend and melt and buildings fall down when you crash big planes into them.To be grouped with the crazies is inconceivable, but every so often something comes along that seems far-fetched until you look closely.
This particular theory is brought to you by the Blogspot Right Wing Crooks, who seem to have figured out how and why Bristol Palin s baby was born in November and not December like she claims.The entire story goes into great detail about individual Instagram, Facebook and Twitter posts, friends of the family and the supposed father and former fiance brought in to make it all neat and clean.
In a nutshell, the theory is that Bristol Palin was impregnated in or around the time she was in Las Vegas last year complaining about the night that ruined her life a month before a Medal of Honor winner mysteriously appears to sweep her off her feet, propose and become an immediate fixture in all aspects of her public, private and online life.The timeline begins on Palin s Instagram on Valentines Day.
A selfie of her and an Alaskan prostitute adult industry worker dressed to impress for a night on the town appears with the caption The night before the worst mistake of my life.
The picture is still there, but the caption, as reported by Right Wing Crooks, has been changed to #Vegas.If that was the night Bristol Palin was impregnated, a typical gestation period would bring her into early to mid-November for a due date.
The fist picture of Bristol with her new daughter, Sailor, appeared on Christmas Eve:The Palins are notorious attention seekers.
Up to this point, there was no mention of babies or deliveries or hospitals.
All of a sudden, bam.
There s Bristol, looking content with her daughter.Sarah hadn t posted at all either, but when she did there was a bit of a problem.
When you post to Facebook your location is logged.
Sarah Palin was somehow holding and loving on her brand new granddaughter in a Hospital in Parker, Alaska but posting to Facebook from New Orleans.
Here is the actual post:https://www.facebook.com/sarahpalin/posts/10153836923483588Things got really fishy when a picture of Bristol and her little girl showed a piece of tape with an IV date on it.
After enhancing, both Right Wing Crooks and Winning Democrats are convinced that the date most likely reads 11/4/15.
November 4th, which by the Vegas pregnancy theory puts Sailor at exactly where she s supposed to be gestation-wise.Here are the pictures with enhancements:Right Wing CrooksThe theory is simple.
To keep Bristol from looking like she got knocked up during a one night stand, a plan was formulated to move the birth.
Bristol took pictures along the way, posting them a month or two in advance.
If yopu check out her Instagram account, you ll see that at 32 weeks (according to her) pregnant she looked pretty along:32 weeks with my babe girl ?
A photo posted by Bristol Palin (@bsmp2) on Oct 29, 2015 at 10:36pm PDTThat from October 29th to this on Thanksgiving, an entire month later?
And what s with the Christmas tree?
It s almost like the whole thing is just staged:Happy Thanksgiving ?
.. thankful for my babies A photo posted by Bristol Palin (@bsmp2) on Nov 26, 2015 at 12:03pm PSTHow far-fetched is it really?
You would simply have to consider what Sarah and the Palins would do to keep Bristol safe from the career (doing whatever it is she does) ending publicity of a one-night stand Vegas baby.
Already her position as an abstinence counselor makes absolutely no sense, so that s kind of a wash, but with the Duggaresque hypocrisy of Bristol being a faith blogger on Patheos and possibly a future where are they now Dancing With The Stars special guest, the concept of changing a couple of months for a clean(er) slate may have been just that appealing.Did she fake the birth of her daughter nearly two months after it happened?
According to Right Wing Crooks there are a slew of other tidbits that add to their theory:That is all admittedly very compelling stuff.
It is also very circumstantial.
If it turns out to be true it will go down as a not-so-well-planned scandal from America s first family of fools.
If it s not true, well shame on the Palins for having an existence that makes it seem plausible.Featured image via Instagram