Alleged president Donald Trump has literally mocked every group of U.S. citizens during his godawful campaign and it s payback time.
Karma is a thing and house Democrats are making sure that the fake president will have to face the very people he mocked in 2016.
Trump s first speech to Congress will be very uncomfortable for him because Democrats have launched a plot to invite guests they say will suffer under new White House policies.Democrats are inviting a crowd which includes ethnic minorities, LGBT people, undocumented immigrants, the disabled and others when he addresses a joint session on Feb. 28th, according to The Hill.This time, Democrats are not going to boycott Trump s speech as they did his inauguration, but instead, they will force the man-baby POTUS to face off with the very people who feel alienated and targeted by his controversial executive orders.A letter which is circulating on Capitol Hill urges fellow Democrats to bring guests who have made a positive impact on the community despite discrimination or marginalization.
It is our hope that their presence in the House Gallery will remind President Trump that he is not the arbiter of patriotism, the letter reads.
This country belongs to all of us, and his rhetoric of intolerance will not stand.
The authors of the letter are as diverse as the crowd they re seeking to assemble.They include Reps. Jim Langevin (R.I.), who was shot accidentally as a teen and became the first quadriplegic to serve in Congress; Michelle Lujan Grisham (N.M.), head of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus; Cedric Richmond (La.
), chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus; Judy Chu (Calif.), head of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus; and David Cicilline (R.I.) and Jared Polis (Colo.), the co-chairman of the LGBT Equality Caucus.
We want to send a strong message to the [president] that he cannot push these communities aside, and he cannot change the fabric of this country, the authors wrote.
Instead of celebrating the very diversity that makes our country a beacon of inclusion and equality, he has chosen to vilify, bully and alienate women, immigrants, people of color, people with disabilities, and people of differing faiths, the Democrats stated in the letter.
His rhetoric emboldens those who seek a scapegoat for the challenges this country faces, the Democrats added.Resistance is not futile.Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images.