NY Governor Andrew Cuomo made two shocking announcements regarding the Christopher Columbus Statues and about his decision not to endorse NY Mayor de Blasio.During an appearance at the West Indian Day Parade on Monday, Gov.
Cuomo said statues of the famous Italian explorer should remain in the public square: The Christopher Columbus statue is really about honoring Italian Americans.
I for one for obvious reasons happen to believe in the Italian-American heritage.
I believe in the contribution Italian-Americans have made, just as I believe in celebrating the Caribbean and the Israel day parade.
NO ENDORSEMENT?
A BATTLE ROYAL BETWEEN TWO DEM HEAVYWEIGHTSGov.
Andrew Cuomo said he isn t endorsing Mayor Bill de Blasio for re-election because he lives in Westchester.
I don t vote in the primary election.
I m a Westchester resident, he said.
I m not voting in this election, so I don t have any primary endorsements at this time.
The Democratic primary is Sept. 12, and de Blasio is heavily favored to win.
The mayor endorsed Cuomo months before the Democratic primary in 2014.Cuomo s non-endorsement of de Blasio is just the latest example of sniping between the two Democratic Party power brokers.
We didn t ask for his support, said de Blasio campaign spokeswoman Monica Klein.
A FIRESTORM OF CRITICISM If this doesn t sink the mayor s reelection efforts, we don t know what will!
When de Blasio announced he would form a committee of people who would decide which statues are offensive then take them down, we knew it was going to be a rough go for de Blasio.
You don t tell the Italian community to take down Christopher Columbus statues!
Cuomo said it best when he finally came out with a statement in support of keeping the statues: The Italian American contribution and the Italian American culture is a big part if what makes New York, New York, Cuomo said.There have been several protests regarding this move by de Blasio so he s now backtracking on his decision:Mayor de Blasio and Council Speaker Melissa Mark Viverito have come under a firestorm of criticism for mulling the removal of a Christopher Columbus statues including the 76-foot structure in Columbus Square as part of a review of offensive monuments.
The mayor has backtracked following the outcry.
There s no plan to remove the Columbus statue, said de Blasio spokesman Eric Phillips.While the Italian explorer is revered for discovering the New World, Columbus detractors said he mistreated and enslaved native Caribbean populations and doesn t deserve to be extolled.CUOMO NEEDED TO FIRST PUT HIS WET FINGER INTO THE WIND TO SEE HOW OPINION WAS GOINGIt s the first time Cuomo has waded in on the controversy after declining comment last week.
The sniping has happened before between the aides of both camps:De Blasio, Cuomo aides engage in nasty Twitter feudREAD MORE: NYP