More manufactured news that exposes the hate our leftist media has for Republicans Even for those who haven t been in office in years.The Boston Globe set heads scratching Tuesday after the newspaper published a story on former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney s whereabouts during the Senate health care vote.The former Massachusetts governor is now a private citizen removed from the debate to repeal and replace Obamacare.
But the Globe wrote a story highlighting Romney s daughter-in-law s Instagram post showing he was jetskiing at the time.
While the Senate debated health care, Mitt Romney was waterskiing, read the original headline, which was later updated to read, Romney, long out of the political fray, takes to the water.
It s been a contentious week in Washington, the Globe wrote.
One Republican who appears to be unbothered by all the political tumult?
That would be Mitt Romney.
The piece, which appeared to criticized Romney for ignoring a debate that had nothing to do with him, earned Internet scorn.
WFBAfter The Boston Globe got destroyed on social media, they changed their headline to this: Romney, long out of the political fray, takes to the water Guys.I found it.
The dumbest story of all time.
https://t.co/Y21anJWocP Peter J. Hasson (@peterjhasson) July 26, 2017uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh what was he supposed to be doing?
I my dead gay son (@bennnnnnewsome) July 26, 2017Twitter user @hale_razor likened The Boston Globe s idiotic question to asking where Bill Belicheck was during the vote?And Belichick was watching game film.
What's your point.
Razor (@hale_razor) July 26, 2017Twitter user @bennnnnnnewsome asked what Romney was supposed to be doing during the health care vote.
He also reminded The Boston Globe that Mitt Romney is not part of the US Senate with his second tweet:like, he doesn't work there, right?
I my dead gay son (@bennnnnnewsome) July 26, 2017This Twitter user @OlegZeltser referred to The Boston Globe as a fish rag or a wrapper for dead fish, and reminded them of their hypocrisy for ignoring Obama s never-ending vacations while he was actually serving as our president:https://twitter.com/OlegZeltser/status/890194766859821056For anyone who doesn t know, the Romney family grew up spending their summers on the water in Canada.
Mitt Romney is actually a pretty darn good water-skier.
Here s a video of Romney slalom-skiing when he was governor of Massachusetts: