After The West Wing wrapped up its final season in 2006, many of us were left with a gaping hole in our soul watching a part of our lives cease to exist any longer.
The brilliance of the show between the writing, directing and acting is one that seldom happens, and can seldom be recreated.However, what it can be, is reprised.
Which is what just happened as actress Allison Janney took to the White House press podium to reprise her role as Claudia Jean CJ Cregg.
For six seasons Janney played the beloved role of Press Secretary for the President Bartlet administration, and then played the White House Chief of Staff.Janney came to the podium telling everyone that Josh is out today, and that the president is still preparing his jokes for the Correspondents Dinner.
That s when real-life Press Secretary Josh Earnest makes an appearance and seems surprised to see Janney there.Clearly, it was a set-up that was brilliantly pulled off, and was made so that Janney could get her broader message across which is the dangers of opioid abuse.
She came to the White House alongside television heavyweight Chuck Lorre, creator of Janney s show Mom, to discuss opioid abuse and recovery.According to ABC News: The White House held an event today honoring 10 White House Champions of Change who help fight the epidemic in their local communities.
After Janney was done speaking, a reporter asked if he could ask her a question.
She politely said sure.
Then the reporter asked if she knew which Democrat President Bartlet is supporting for the election.
To which Janney quickly quipped back, I think you know the answer to that.
After all, Janney s character CJ has been said to have been modeled after former Clinton Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers.
So, one can only assume who she was talking about in her answer to the reporter s question.All in all, it was great to see CJ Cregg back in action!Watch here:.
@AllisonBJanneyAKA CJ CreggAKA Bonnie on @MomCBSdrops by the White House press briefing.
https://t.co/TK4NJ7TEyM The White House (@WhiteHouse) April 29, 2016Featured image via video screen capture