Sean Hannity wants to destroy freedom of the press by punishing any news outlet that told the ugly truth about Donald Trump.During his radio show on Tuesday, Trump s most frequent ass kisser suggested that Trump bar certain networks from the White House press room because he says they colluded with the Clinton campaign and that they should be banned until they admit it, even though these networks were merely doing their jobs by covering all the bullshit Trump was saying and doing throughout his campaign.
Maybe Donald Trump should rethink how he deals with media, Hannity said.
Why should CNN have a seat in the White House press room?
Why should NBC have a seat there?
Why should The New York Times have a seat there, or Politico?
They all think they re journalists, they re all full of crap, and they ve all been exposed.
Until members of the media come clean about colluding with the Clinton campaign and admit that they knowingly broke every ethical standard they are supposed to uphold, they should not have the privilege, they should not have the responsibility of covering the president on behalf of you, the American people.
Hannity continued his tirade on Twitter on Wednesday by calling prominent networks like ABC, NBC, and CNN biased and fake news and repeated his call for Trump to blacklist them from having access.
@politico @CNN @NBCNews @CNBC @msnbc @nytimes @ABC @CBSNews Are all biased and Corrupt.
Fake News .
If I were @realDonaldTrump NO ACCESS!
https://t.co/4eoCBc7WVa Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) November 23, 2016Blacklisting media outlets just for doing their jobs would be a violation of the Constitution.
But if Hannity really wants to play this game, he would be well advised to remember that turnabout is fair play and there will likely be a Democrat in the White House four years from now that could do more than just blacklist Fox News in retaliation.
The FCC could be easily directed to shut Hannity and Fox News down, and frankly, that would be a good thing.
So whatever Donald Trump and his minions do in an effort to punish people, policies, and institutions they don t like, Democrats should retaliate by burying the rght-wing so hard that they ll really have something to whine about.Featured Image: Screenshot