Just before midnight on Friday, July 8, LaNaydra Williams discovered a chilling comment on her Facebook page.
The words were posted beneath a photo of Williams, who is Black, posing together with her five-year-old daughter.The comment read: We ll see how much her life matters soon better be careful leaving your info in the open where she can be found.
Hold her close tonight, it ll be the last time.
Williams, who lives in Texas, had never seen or spoken to the poster, identified on Facebook as Rodney Lee.She went to his Facebook page, and immediately saw pictures of a man wearing a police uniform.
She contacted authorities immediately.The officer who left the message on her daughter s picture was identified as Rodney Lee Wilson.
Until Sunday, Wilson was an officer working for the Overland Park Police Department, in Kansas.Williams says that Overland Park officials initially claimed Wilson s Facebook page was hacked.On Sunday, however, following an internal investigation, Oakland Park police acknowledged that Wilson did leave the threatening comments on Williams photo.Overland Park Police Chief, Francis Donchez Jr, issued an official statement regarding the incident, on July 10.A post on the Overland Park Police Department s Facebook page reads: This morning, the Overland Park Police Department received notification about a Facebook post, reportedly made by one of our officers from his personal Facebook account.
I immediately initiated an investigation into the officer s actions and requested it be completed in a timely manner, said Police Chief Francis Donchez Jr. During the investigation, by our Professional Standards Unit, we learned our officer did in fact make this post, Donchez said.
It was obvious that our officer did not meet the standards of professionalism for the Overland Park Police Department.
Overland Park has terminated the officer, effective immediately.
The official post goes on to say: A criminal investigation is underway as a result of information discovered during the course of the personnel investigation.
During an interview with Fox 4, Williams said she remains very fearful of the former-officer.
I don t know anything about this man, she told reporters, stressing that she has no idea whether he will try to retaliate against her or her daughter.Watch the interview below from Fox 4 in Kansas.Image credit: video screen capture via Fox 4