This is what it looks like when the Wicked Witch throws a temper tantrum.In addition to calling the worldwide chaos a small price to pay to keep America safe, Conway went on a long rant against the media on Sunday during an interview with Fox News host Chris Wallace, who let Trump s adviser hang herself rather than save her from humiliating herself.Conway whined about media criticism of Trump and demanded that people who criticize Trump be fired.
Who is cleaning house?
Which one is going to be the first network to get rid of these people, the people who think things were just not true, it happened last week.
Talk about alternative facts.
I went on three network shows and spoke for 35 minutes on three network Sunday shows.
You know what got picked?
The fact that I said alternative facts, not the fact that I ripped a new one to some of those hosts that they never cover the facts that matter.
The 16.1 million women in poverty, the 12.4 million who have no health insurance.
Everyone should be outraged Of course, Conway conveniently ignored that by repealing the Affordable Care Act her boss is stripping healthcare away from 30 million Americans and will cause millions of Americans to fall into poverty.
But she doesn t seem to have a problem with that at all.Oh, but that wasn t the end of her rant.
Conway continued to bitch about headlines and demanded that people be fired.We have all the headlines someone should be embarrassed.Not one network person has been let go.
Not one silly political analyst and pundit who talked smack all day long about Donald Trump has been let go.
They are panels every Sunday, they are on cable news every day.Who is the first editorial writer?
Who is the first blogger that will be left out, that embarrassed him at outlets.
We know their names.
I m too polite to mention their names, but they know who they are, and they are all wondering who will be the first to go.
The election was three months ago.
None of them have been let go.If the mainstream media were a thriving private sector business that actually turned a profit, which is not true of many newspapers, 20% of the people would be gone.
They embarrassed, they failed to protect their shareholders and the board members and their colleagues.And yet we deal with him every single day.
We turn the other cheek.
If you are part of team Trump, you walk around with these gaping, seeping wounds every day, that s fine.
I m here every Sunday morning.
I haven t slept in in a month.Conway literally attacked the free press for reporting accurately on Trump and the things he has been doing since taking office.
And considering all those horrible things it s a wonder that Conway is able to actually sleep at night at all.Here s the video via Real Clear Politics.Reporters should not be fired for doing their jobs.
Conway and Trump want to force the press to say nothing but good things about them.
The problem is that Trump has done nothing but destroy America and ignore American values.
Demanding that the media fire Trump critics is the same as demanding censorship and demanding that the media lie for you.
That should not happen in a nation where the free press is guaranteed by the Constitution.Featured image via screenshot