Judge Jeanine Pirro has continued her screamy ragey meltdown over special counsel Robert Mueller s investigation into any possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election.
The Fox host is trying to discredit the FBI and we re wondering where the Blue Lives Matter crowd is as she tries to take down law enforcement officials.
On Saturday night, Pirro said there needs to be a cleansing at the FBI and the Department of Justice.Pirro claims that quite a few officials are protecting Hillary Clinton who does not hold public office or are destroying Donald Trump, and singled out Deputy Director of the FBI Andrew McCabe, FBI official Peter Strzok, former Associate Deputy Attorney General Bruce Ohr, former FBI Director James Comey and you guessed it: Special Counsel Robert Mueller all of whom she says need to be arrested and placed in handcuffs.
There have been times in our history where corruption and lawlessness were so pervasive, that examples had to be made, she shrieked.
This is one of those times.
There is a cleansing needed in our FBI and Department of Justice it needs to be cleansed of individuals who should not just be fired.
But who need to be taken out in cuffs, Pirro declared.Watch:.
@JudgeJeanine: There have been times in our history where corruption and lawlessness were so pervasive, that examples had to be made.
This is one of those times.
pic.twitter.com/I2a1Uz5DGK Fox News (@FoxNews) December 10, 2017Pirro has been trying to work Trump up into a frenzy over Hillary Clinton by using conspiracy theories.
She got so out of hand that even Trump became visibly agitated and walked out on her during her rant.Pirro s husband was convicted of conspiracy and tax evasion in 2000.
For that, he was sentenced to spend over two years locked up in prison for improperly deducting $1.2 million of his personal expenses as business write-offs while living a lavish lifestyle.
Mr. Pirro was convicted on all 34 counts.Pirro split with her hubby after he admitted to fathering a child with another woman.
He told the press and Pirro failed to give him enough attention.
I know!
Maybe if he changed his name to Hillary Clinton then he d get all the attention he needs.Pirro s hatred for Hillary Clinton goes way back and it appears to stem from jealousy.Maybe Pirro should heed the advice from Pirro in 2016 when she said, We cannot have a country run by a president subject to ongoing criminal investigations, potential indictments and never-ending hearings [W]hether she s indicted or even guilty, it doesn t matter.
I ll just leave this here:When you re attacking FBI agents because you re under criminal investigation, you re losing https://t.co/SIoAxatCjp Sarah Sanders (@SarahHuckabee) November 3, 2016Image via screen capture.