Is the primary process in the United States messed up?
To be blunt absolutely, and Last Week Tonight s John Oliver took Sunday night s show to highlight what makes the process so confusing and unbalanced, and what we can do to help fix it.As far as who should be winning the Democratic primary?
This time around, it s the person who is winning the Democratic primary Hillary Clinton.Offering up a history lesson was The Daily Beast: States used to not have primary races, but that all changed at the 1968 Democratic National Convention, when Hubert Humphrey received the nod despite failing to win a single primary or even be on the ballot prior to the convention.
This, of course, resulted in a now-legendary riot at the convention that left CBS newsman Dan Rather roughed up by security guards on the floor.
So that leaves us with the primaries and caucuses system one designed to give party leaders more say.
So, the system is better, but far from perfect, and still leaves control of who gets the nomination in the hands of too few.
As we vote in primaries, if you vote in the primary, you are telling the delegates who you want to represent you, but it is still ultimately in their hands.The Daily Beast also offers this regarding the now infamous superdelegates: For those unaware, superdelegates comprise about 15 percent of the 4,763 total delegates, and these superdelegates elected officials, former party presidents, and party bigwigs are unpledged, and can vote for whatever delegate they want regardless of who won in their state or district.
So, during his show, Oliver offers some pretty damned good analysis that should clear things up for people still upset about how things are turning out.Oliver states: Now for the record, Politifact looked into the charges of rigging in Nevada and found no clear evidence the state party hijacked the process, and you can disagree with that, as I m sure Bernie supporters will in the comments section below this video alongside hurtful remarks about my personal appearance like, Oh look, it s British Millhouse But the larger point Politifact made regarding Nevada, that I think everyone can agree with, is that the arcane party structures don t reflect how most people assume presidential selection works, and that in itself is a huge problem.
Any competition should have clear rules.
You don t get to the end of a football game and say, OK, who found the most eggs?
He later added: Sanders supporters might argue that doesn t include all caucus votes, but when The Washington Post estimated the rest, they found that [Hillary] would still lead by 2.9 million votes, and even if you multiply all those estimated caucus votes by 7 to account for lower turnouts, even if you give Bernie a bonus of 10,000 extra votes in every state that s voted so far, and even if you tack on an extra 100,000 votes just for shits and giggles, she s still comfortably ahead.
And if you re still really angry at the system, getting mad at the rules after you ve already entered the game isn t going to do you a whole heck of a lot of good.
Does it suck?
Sure.
But it s what you signed up for.Oliver offers a solution that many should take very seriously, but it s going to require people actually staying involved in politics past a favorite candidate running for office.
He said: Let s together pick a date early next year to actually write an email to the chair of each party and remind them politely to fix this.
I propose February 2nd.
Now, that will be easy to remember because it s Groundhog Day, which does seem appropriate because, unless this primary process is fixed, we are all destined to live through the same nightmare scenario over and over again until the end of fucking time.
The primary process has been around for several decades now.
It isn t new, and to get mad at it now is good, but you need to stay angry beyond the given moment of your candidate losing.
Revolutions don t happen overnight.
They happen over several years, and to truly enact change requires commitment.
Commit to change.
Make sure it happens.
Push party leaders to put together a better process, and hopefully, over time, it will happen.
But complaining about it every four years like it s something new won t do a damn thing.Kudos to you, John Oliver, for perfectly breaking it down.Watch the full segment here:Featured image via video screen capture