21st Century Wire says Based on the events we have seen over the past two months the Democrat-organized street protests and calls to abolish the Electoral College, Democrat intimidation of electors, the pseudo recount by the Democratic Party and their willing agent Jill Stein, the evidence-free DNI Report on the alleged Russian Hack and the fake Trump-Russia Blackmail dossier, as well as radical left-wing plans to shut down next week s inauguration and block the transfer of power in Washington you can be absolutely certain that the losing party will not give up and have yet to unveil some more audacious plans designed to unseat the new 45th President of the United States, Donald J Trump.
If Trump makes it past the inauguration on Jan 20th, expect a serious purge to take place in Washington DC, as the new administration attempt to remove those who are hell-bent on sabotaging the political process and transfer of power.All you need to know about this dodgy dossier fabricated and then laundered by anti-Russian war hawk John McCain in a way which seems to be standard practice for Washington s political and media hacks alike: But this is what one would expect of a document based entirely of hearsay in which Source A claims to have gotten a juicy tidbit from Source B, who heard it from Source C deep inside the Kremlin.
Constortium News Exclusive: The U.S. intelligence community s unprecedented assault on an incoming U.S. president now including spreading salacious rumors raises questions about how long Donald Trump can hold the White House, says Daniel Lazare Daniel Lazare Consortium NewsIs a military coup in the works?
Or are U.S. intelligence agencies laying the political groundwork for forcing Donald Trump from the presidency because they can t abide his rejection of a new cold war with Russia?
Not long ago, even asking such questions would have marked one as the sort of paranoid nut who believes that lizard people run the government.
But no longer.Thanks to the now-notorious 35-page dossier concerning Donald Trump s alleged sexual improprieties in a Moscow luxury hotel, it s clear that strange maneuverings are underway in Washington and that no one is quite sure how they will end.Director of National Intelligence James Clapper added to the mystery Wednesday evening by releasing a 200-word statement to the effect that he was shocked, shocked, that the dossier had found its way into the press.
Such leaks, the statement said, are extremely corrosive and damaging to our national security.
Clapper added: that this document is not a US Intelligence Community product and that I do not believe the leaks came from within the IC.
The IC has not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable, and we did not rely upon it in any way for our conclusions.
However, part of our obligation is to ensure that policymakers are provided with the fullest possible picture of any matters that might affect national security.
Rather than vouching for the dossier s contents, in other words, all Clapper says he did was inform Trump that it was making the rounds in Washington and that he should know what it said and that he thus couldn t have been more horrified than when Buzzfeed posted all 35 pages on its website.But it doesn t make sense.
As The New York Times noted, putting the summary in a report that went to multiple people in Congress and the executive branch made it very likely that it would be leaked (emphasis in the original).
So even if the intelligence community didn t leak the dossier itself, it distributed it knowing that someone else would.Then there is The Guardian, second to none in its loathing for Trump and Vladimir Putin and hence intent on giving the dossier the best possible spin.
It printed a quasi-defense not of the memo itself but of the man who wrote it: Christopher Steele, an ex-MI6 officer who now heads his own private intelligence firm.
A sober, cautious and meticulous professional with a formidable record is how the Guardiandescribed him.
Then it quoted an unnamed ex-Foreign Office official on the subject of Steele s credibility: The idea his work is fake or a cowboy operation is false, completely untrue.
Chris is an experienced and highly regarded professional.
He s not the sort of person who will simply pass on gossip.
If he puts something in a report, he believes there s sufficient credibility in it for it to be worth considering.
Chris is a very straight guy.
He could not have survived in the job he was in if he had been prone to flights of fancy or doing things in an ill-considered way.
In other words, Steele is a straight-shooter, so it s worth paying attention to what he has to say.
Or so the Guardian assures us.
That is the way the CIA and the FBI, not to mention the British government, regarded him, too, it adds, so presumably Clapper felt the same way.What is Afoot?So what does it all mean?
Simply that U.S. intelligence agencies believed that the dossier came from a reliable source and that, as a consequence, there was a significant possibility that Trump was a Siberian candidate, as Times columnist Paul Krugman once described him.
They therefore sent out multiple copies of a two-page summary on the assumption that at least one would find its way to the press.Even if Clapper & Co. took no position concerning the dossier s contents, they knew that preparing and distributing such a summary amounted to a tacit endorsement.
They also knew, presumably, that it would provide editors with an excuse to go public.
If the CIA, FBI, and National Security Agency feel that Steele s findings are worthy of attention, then why shouldn t the average reader have an opportunity to examine them as well?How did Clapper expect Trump to respond when presented with allegations that he was vulnerable to Russian blackmail and potentially under the Kremlin s thumb?
Did he expect him to hang his head in shame, break into great racking sobs, and admit that it was all true?
If so, did Clapper \then plan to place a comforting hand on Trump s shoulder and suggest, gently but firmly, that it was time to step aside and allow a trusted insider like Mike Pence to take the reins?Based on the sturm und drang of the last few days, the answer is very possibly yes.
If so, the gambit failed when Trump, in his usual high-voltage manner, denounced the dossier as fake news and sailed into the intelligence agencies for behaving like something out of Nazi Germany.
The intelligence community s hopes, if that s what they were, were dashed.All of which is thoroughly unprecedented by American political standards.
After all, this is a country that takes endless pride in the peaceful transfer of power every four years or so.
Yet here was the intelligence community attempting to short-circuit the process by engineering Trump s removal before he even took office.But the Guardian then upped the ante even more by suggesting that the CIA continue with the struggle.
Plainly, the Republican congressional leadership has no appetite for an inquiry into Steele s findings, the paper s New York correspondent, Ed Pilkington, wrote, adding: That leaves the intelligence agencies.
The danger for Trump here is that he has so alienated senior officials, not least by likening them to Nazis, that he has hardly earned their loyalty.
What was the Guardian suggesting that disloyal intelligence agents keep on searching regardless?
And what if they come up with what they claim is a smoking gun?Explained Pilkington: To take a flight of fancy, what if it [i.e.
Steele s findings] were substantiated?
That would again come down to a question of politics.
No US president has ever been forced out of office by impeachment (Richard Nixon resigned before the vote; Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton were acquitted by the Senate).
Any such procedure would have to be prepared and approved by a majority of the House of Representatives, and then passed to the Senate for a two-thirds majority vote.
As the Republicans hold the reins in both chambers, it would take an almighty severing of ties between Trump and his own party to even get close to such a place.
It s a long shot, but the Guardian s recommendation is that rogue agents keep on digging until they strike pay dirt, at which point they should go straight to Congress and persuade if not pressure the Republican leadership to initiate the process of throwing Trump out of office.This is not the same as sending an armored column to attack Capitol Hill, but it s close.
Essentially, the Guardian was calling on the intelligence agencies to assume ultimate responsibility regarding who can sit in the Oval Office and who cannot Continue this story at Consortium NewsREAD MORE ELECTIONS NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire 2016 FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV