If you haven t heard, the Trump administration is making conservative wet dreams come true by gutting every social program imaginable including Meals on Wheels, which provides elderly and disabled people with food and occasional company.
This development is not shocking to most of us, but 56-year-old Georgia resident Linda Preast somehow had no idea this sort of thing would happen when she voted for a gigantic orange billionaire with a long history of telling the poor to f*ck off.Preast has been wheelchair-bound since she had a stroke two years ago and relies on Meals on Wheels for food.
But now that it s not just about building a wall and getting all those damn Muslims out of the country, now that sh*t is getting real, Preast is realizing she may have made a mistake.Are you surprised?
CBS News correspondent Michelle Miller asked Preast about the cuts to the Meals on Wheels program.
Yeah, Preast said.
Because he was told I was under the influence that he was going to help us.
To be clear, there was never any reason to think Donald Trump would help anyone outside his tax bracket.
We can t spend money on programs just because they sound good.
And Meals on Wheels sounds great, says White House Budget director Mick Mulvaney, who calls the cuts to Meals on Wheels and other programs designed to help the less fortunate compassionate.
Asked what she would tell Donald Trump to convince him not to cut funding to a program that helps her, Preast replied What if it was your momma?
But it s not Donald Trump s momma and he doesn t care about the majority of Americans even his supporters.While the government has decided that a program that feeds 2.4 million people a year doesn t work, Americans disagree.
Ever since the budget was announced, donations have been pouring in from people who desperately want to save a program that helps so many.
The program has seen a 500 percent increase in volunteers and a 50 percent increase in online donations, but it s still not enough.
The scary thing about that is that funding is already not keeping up with pace, Jenny Bertolette, vice president of communications for Meals on Wheels America says.
There are already demands that we can t meet.
There is already a waitlist crisis If this budget was enacted, it would obviously just make matters so much worse.
Watch a report on the crisis below:Featured image via screengrab