Just days after forsaking her Stanford Cardinals by supporting the Iowa Hawkeyes in the Rose Bowl to pander for votes, Carly Fiorina complained that Ted Cruz says whatever to get elected.During an interview on CNN, Fiorina launched an attack on the Texas Tea Party hero, who is currently leading in some Iowa polls ahead of the first primary vote in February.
The failed former CEO of Hewlett-Packard whined about Cruz saying whatever it takes to get voters to support him.
Ted Cruz is just like any other politician.
He says one thing in Manhattan, he says another thing in Iowa.
He says whatever he needs to say to get elected, and then he s going to do as he pleases.
I think the American people are tired of the political class that promises much and delivers much of the same.
But as right as she is about Ted Cruz, Fiorina completely ignored her own hypocrisy when it comes to pandering.For weeks, Fiorina pandered to conservative Christians by claiming that heavily edited Planned Parenthood videos featured footage of a live fetus being butchered for body parts.
Fiorina s claims have since been thoroughly debunked by media and medical professionals.She has also pandered to women by falsely claiming that 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama s first term belonged to women, when in fact, women actually gained jobs.Fiorina also pandered to the military by accusing President Obama of ending the careers of several generals.
However, only two of the five she mentioned retired due to policy differences with their commander-in-chief.Time and time again, Fiorina has lied in an effort to gain support.
Politifact has caught her lying around 70 percent of the time.But her worst attempt to pander came on Friday when she wrote a Twitter post rooting for the Iowa Hawkeyes football team against her own alma mater in a clear effort to gain support from Iowa voters.Love my alma mater, but rooting for a Hawkeyes win today.
#RoseBowl Carly Fiorina (@CarlyFiorina) January 1, 2016CNN host Dana Bash also pointed out Fiorina s hypocrisy on Sunday, to which Fiorina responded by claiming that the tweet was just her way of having a little fun and was not meant to pander at all.
For heaven s sake.
Can t a girl ever have a little bit of fun?
Fiorina asked.
That was a tongue in cheek tweet which the people of Iowa understand, because I was asked over and over again in Iowa, having attended a Hawkeye tailgate, I was asked, they knew that my heart was torn.
Let s just say if the biggest mistake I make is a tongue in cheek Tweet about a Rose Bowl, the American people will sleep safely when I am President of the United States, she added.
It was tongue in cheek, for heaven s sake.
A girl needs to have a little fun sometimes.
I guess it was a slow news day in the media.
Here s the video via YouTube.However, contrary to what Fiorina claims, Iowa fans, nor anyone else for that matter, did not understand and were definitely not happy about Fiorina s tweet as she was roundly criticized in reply after reply to her tweet.Furthermore, as mentioned earlier, Fiorina s tweet is not the only mistake she has made throughout her campaign, nor is it the biggest.
And it should also be noted that Fiorina played the woman card to spin out of her Twitter fiasco.
Rather than own up to her obvious pandering play, Fiorina framed it as a girl just having fun and suggested that the media is being sexist.Sorry, Carly.
But that just doesn t fly.
You are currently polling at 2 percent in Iowa.
Clearly, you are desperate for higher poll numbers as it becomes ever more clear that your campaign is doomed.
So, you made a choice to pander to Iowans by throwing your own team under a bus instead of displaying loyalty to the university you graduated from.
And then your decision was made worse after Stanford absolutely destroyed Iowa on the football field to win the Rose Bowl.
If any other team had been playing the Hawkeyes, perhaps your tweet would have been appropriate, but that was not the case.
You got caught pandering and now you re trying to frame it as a girl having a little fun and an evil sexist media attacking you for it.
That s called playing the victim and it s not very appealing to voters either.Carly Fiorina should be so embarrassed right now that she ends her campaign in disgrace instead of continuing to pretend that people actually like her and that she has a chance to actually win.Featured Image: Flickr