This was a treat to watch.If you want to see a member of Team Hillary absolutely destroy a Trump mouthpiece and the Republican Party on the air, you ll want to watch every minute of this panel discussion that occurred on CNN with Carol Costello on Wednesday morning.Donald Trump supporter Kayleigh McEnany accused Republican establishment leaders of conspiring to defeat him, which is why she says Trump refuses to support Senator John McCain and House Speaker Paul Ryan in their tough re-election bids.
They disrespected the voters who support the Republican nominee, she claimed before adding that without Republican voters, the Republican Party won t exist.
That s when Clinton supporter Robert Zimmerman interrupted to chime in with an amazing takedown of the GOP and their new leader.
Without independent voters, no candidate is going to be a credible candidate for president.
Donald Trump succeeded in a Republican Party where 44 percent of them think the president is a secret Muslim.
To that voter, Duck Dynasty is a think tank.
Donald Trump still won t even recognize that President Obama is an American citizen.
So, it tells you just how bankrupt Donald Trump is ethically and morally and also how dysfunctional, how extreme the Republican Party has become.
That s the real issue here.
Here s the video via YouTube.Indeed, Trump has been an embarrassment to the Republican Party and the United States.He has crisscrossed the country bragging about how he will build a wall and ban Muslims from entering the country while demonstrating that he knows absolutely nothing about domestic or foreign policy.Furthermore, he has a thin skin and has viciously attacked anyone who dares to criticize him.Republicans have moved so far to the extreme right that they created the hateful and bigoted atmosphere within the party that allowed Trump to ascend to the top of the ticket.
Republicans should be ashamed of themselves and their party and if they truly care about America they will dump Trump.
Sure, they would be giving the election away to Hillary Clinton by doing so, but at least there will be a nation left to govern.
And perhaps Republicans will finally change and become an inclusive party with real ideas that make them capable of being elected again.
Because right now, the Republican Party is a joke that only appeals to the lowest common denominator.Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images