Donald Trump s primary goal in life seems to be to sh*t on everything.
This is something the brain-dead gaggle of right-wing propaganda pushers at Fox News have learned the hard way since the year began.
For years, the network as struggled with sagging ratings as Republicans who are, when compared to the uneducated masses who make up the network s core audience, have abandoned Fox in spirit, if not physically.Unfortunately, the same people who have traditionally eagerly slurped up Megyn Kelly s claims that pepper spray is a food product, Jesus and Santa are real (and white), and the rest of the nonsensical babble that regularly fills the schedule of what can loosely be called a news organization, have developed a rather negative opinion of the network..
Unfortunately, Fox has managed to condition its viewers to believe quite literally anything so well that they have hopped aboard the Trump Train to Stupidville and that train has left the station without Fox.YouGov reports that, while Fox has been struggling to keep viewers for years, the network lost half of its audience in a single month.
No, they didn t stop watching after all, is there a news network that displays unabashed, willful stupidity with the degree of expertise Fox does?
but they hate it.
Besides, Fox still has the muted television in a doctor s office and sleeping grandmother demographics locked.
Since the first GOP presidential debate last August, Fox News Channel seems to have lost its perception mojo with its core right-leaning audience, YouGov s Ted Marzilli notes, adding that things only got worse in January.August, of course, was when Trump s war with Fox News Megyn Kelly began a battle that amped up through the year and was rekindled just before the final GOP debate leading up to the Iowa Caucuses.
And, of course, this was when YouGov noticed the sharpest drop in Fox News viewership.
Between January 18 and February 12, Fox s Buzz Score the way YouGov rates network popularity among Republicans dropped from 36 to 14.via YouGovTo put it in perspective, Fox s Buzz Score among Republicans was 49 on January 1, 2013.In terms of the general 18+ crowd, Fox isn t doing much better: The picture hasn t been rosy in terms of the general population either: since last May, Fox News Channel s perception levels with adults 18+ have uncharacteristically been drawing significantly more negative feedback than positive.
At this point, both FNC and CNN are scoring at similar perception levels and they are both negative.To measure perception of the two networks, YouGov BrandIndex used its Buzz score, which asks respondents: If you ve heard anything about the brand in the last two weeks, through advertising, news or word of mouth, was it positive or negative?
A score can range from 100 to -100 with a zero score equaling a neutral position.
via YouGovNaturally, as Fox has been attacking the absolute worst person the Right has to offer fairly regularly, the Stupid Part of America has tuned out, declaring FNC to be too liberal for their tastes.Is fox still the highest-rated news network?
Absolutely but not for long, if it keeps infuriating its base by attacking the KKK s choice for President.
This, of course, places the dummies at Fox in quite a predicament.
Going forward, do they support Republicans who don t openly call for putting groups of Americans in concentration camps, or do they begin trumpeting support for Trump?Featured image via screengrab