When Jane Sanders visited one of known bigot and champion of racial profiling Sheriff Joe Arpaio s unconstitutional tent prisons, she was appalled.
Arpaio doesn t understand the meaning of cruel and unusual punishment.
He forces prisoners to live in smoldering heat and eat expired foods.
Since the majority of his inmates are Hispanic people, Arpaio and his racist freak constituents couldn t care less.
They follow a doctrine that embraces prosecuting and jailing people simply for the color of their skin to begin with.Mrs.
Sanders ended up in a heated argument with Arpaio, one her senator and presidential candidate husband simply couldn t ignore.
According to The New York Times, Sanders railed against Arpaio at a campaign event, laying waste to the man he says ambushed his wife: She asked him about racial profiling, and he didn t have an answer, Sanders said, She asked him about conditions in Tent City and other abuses that he has perpetuated, and he didn t have an answer.
You know what, he cannot have an answer, because what he is doing is un-American and uncivilized.
If elected president, we are going to pass comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship, whether Mr. Arpaio likes it or not.
Sheriff Arpaio has been widely criticized, and rightfully so, for his tactics for keeping his jail stocked with minority inmates.
He was even sued by the Justice Department for the illegal racial profiling of Hispanics that leads to traffic stops and arrests, often for misdemeanor offenses white people get tickets for.
His intolerance and racism has made him a national spectacle on many occasions.
Conservatives love him because he embodies all they aspire to be in life: openly hateful racists who are allowed to look down on people for no reason other than their accent.Senator Sanders had a stern warning for Sheriff Arpaio: It s easy for bullies like Sheriff Arpaio to pick on people who have no power.
If I am elected president the President of the United States does have power.
So watch out, Joe.
Aside from everything we already know about Bernie Sanders we can add this very useful piece of information: Don t mess with his wife.Featured image from Gage Skidmore