Sarah Palin is a huge Donald Trump fan.
However, she is also political poison.
Trump has that whole being politically deadly thing locked down all by himself, so the last thing he needs is the likes of the Alaskan half-term halfwit showing up to give yet another crazy, drunken, rambling speech in front of the entire nation and world at the GOP convention.
However, The Donald has given a completely nonsensical reason for Palin s all-too-obvious convention absence: Alaska is simply too far away for her to travel.Trump said of Palin not attending: She was asked.
It s a little bit difficult because of where she is.
We love Sarah.
Little bit difficult because of, you know, it s a long ways away.
That s as flimsy of an excuse as ever, and an obvious lie.
Then again, it just continues the trend of GOP high rollers and national figures who are sitting this one out.
Hell, some even suggested that they are not going because of silly commitments like mowing their lawns, even though it s clearly because they don t want to be within a country mile of the upcoming fiasco that is Donald Trump s coronation party.As for Palin s conspicuous absence that s likely RNC bigwigs like Paul Ryan and Reince Priebus leaning on Trump and his campaign to keep her away.
She is yet another national embarrassment, and they already have enough of that with their current, and grudgingly accepted standard-bearer.
Palin proved herself to be a political disaster during the 2008 presidential campaign, when Arizona Senator John McCain picked her to be his running mate, and the country watched in horror as someone who was so obviously unqualified to be anywhere near Washington for any reason almost got to the point of being one 72-year-old man s heartbeat away from being leader of the free world.Palin never went away after that debacle, and America dodged a bullet for sure with the McCain/Palin ticket s spectacular loss to Barack Obama and Joe Biden.
However, she has been a fixture in the conservative movement ever since, and not a welcome one, either.
No, this has nothing to do with distance and everything to do with the fact that the RNC and GOP leadership has enough chaos to deal with over Trump.
They don t need Palin there as well.Featured image via Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images