Nothing like a good dose of Sheriff Clarke to expose the lies of the left After showing a clip of the confrontation between Hillary Clinton and some Black Lives Matter representatives in which things became tense and Clinton was clearly uncomfortable, Sheriff David Clarke is asked to weigh in on what is happening.He leads off by saying, Hillary meet Frankenstein, they created this monster and now they realize that if you cannot continue to feed it the beast the beast will turn on you and eat you and that s what s going on here.
He said that he refers to the group as Black Lies Matter because they are perpetuating lies built upon a foundation of lies, the bastard child of the original lie of the Hands Up Don t Shoot narrative built upon the justified self-defense shooting of hood rat Michael Brown.Sheriff Clarke describes the group as a conglomeration of misfits, noting their ranks include retreads and operatives from the occupy movement, organized labor, criminals, black racialists, cop haters and anarchists.
He fails to include their funding source, billionaire America-hater George Soros.
Any Marxist associated or otherwise subversive movement in this nation invariably has the stain of Soros visible just below the surface.Sheriff Clarke says, No longer in the United States, and I think that I m living proof of that, no longer can blacks as a whole claim victim status except for one situation.
They are victims to the Democrat Party in the United States of America and what modern liberalism has done to the black family.
The speak to the absurdity of Democrat candidate for president Martin O Malley caving to Black Lives Matter pressure to walk back a statement that all lives matter.Clarke says It s an example of the monster that they ve created that they cannot feed anymore.
They re not in control of this movement.
This was created to mobilize the black vote for the 2016 election.
The problem is we ve got a long way to go and there s only so long that you can keep that sort of negative movement going before you lose control of it.
I though O Malley, his reaction after that was pathetic.
They point to how well the cowering to the black thugs has demonstrated the lack of character on the part of both O Malley and Barry Surrender the mic Sanders and their unfitness for the world leadership stage.They also note the hypocrisy of the faux-movement in that only the black lives which they can use to foment unrest matter.
The black on black violence is never mentioned and it doesn t matter because it carries with it no political capital.
Via: Rick Wells