Unable to spew her toxic bullshit on various media outlets, Kellyanne Conway appeared on right-wing radio instead.Republicans have conveniently ignored the fact that they obstructed President Obama for eight years.
And that includes a nearly year long refusal to grant Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland a fair confirmation hearing.
Republicans even blocked one Obama nominee so long that she died waiting to serve her country.So every time Republicans complain about Democrats obstructing Trump, they are being hypocrites.And Conway was a whining hypocrite during an appearance on Hugh Hewitt s radio show on Tuesday and failed to disagree with Hewitt after he compared President Obama s appointees to terrorists.
I just want him to do, there are sleeper cells of Obama appointees throughout this government who are in political jobs, Hewitt said They re not civil servants, and I want them, I really want them gone yesterday.
Hewitt wants Donald Trump to just fire all of Obama s appointees, which would leave several positions unfilled as the Senate continues to hold hearings for Trump s nominees.Hewitt then asked Conway if Trump will use recess appointments to fill all of the government posts in one shot, a dubious appointment method that Republicans repeatedly warned President Obama against doing.
Would you push that, because we ve got to stand up to this government, and Senate Democrats are not going to do anything to assist us in getting going, Hewitt said.Not only did Conway fail to call Hewitt out for comparing President s Obama s appointees to terrorists, she admitted that Trump could pull the trigger on recess appointments, which would allow hundreds of nominees to fill posts without confirmation by the Senate.
Everything s on the table, she said.
All of that is being discussed, Hugh.
And you make some excellent points.
You re right about the Democrats.
I mean, to see sort of congenital, presumptive obstruction and negativity is very concerning, because it just means that the government can t function fully, and that they re obstructing regardless of who the individual is that s being considered, regardless of the post that needs to be filled.
And it s very frustrating.
Gee, that sounds a lot like what Republicans have been doing over the last eight years.
Except that Democrats are obstructing because Trump is picking nominees who are unqualified.The hypocrisy here is absolutely unprecedented.
If President Obama had immediately fired every appointee of George W. Bush, Republicans would have screamed bloody murder.And the fact is that as much as Republicans are whining about Democratic obstruction, turnabout is fair play.
If Republicans wanted Democrats to work with them they should have thought about that before treating President Obama the way they did over the last eight years.
From the very first day of President Obama s administration, Senate Republicans vowed to obstruct him.
They refused to cooperate with him on anything.
And now that the same thing is happening to them, they have no right to complain and they only have themselves to blame.Comparing Democrats to terrorists is totally un-American and just demonstrates that Democrats have a duty to continue obstructing Donald Trump and his extreme conservative agenda.
And by not disputing Hewitt s comparison, Conway just demonstrated why she should never be allowed on television again.Featured image via screenshot