Liberals love us some Ruth Bader Ginsberg, who has been carrying the Supreme Court s torch for sanity for about 25 years.
She s also 83-years-old, which in this climate of Republican domination and with an administration that doesn t give a damn about the constraints of the Constitution, is a little bit worrisome.
In an appearance at George Washington University in Washington, D.C., Ginsburg told the audience that she s got this.
She s not going anywhere if she can help it.
I will do this job as long as I can do it full steam, Ginsburg, 83, said at an appearance Thursday night at George Washington University in Washington, D.C.
When I can t, that will be the time I will step down.
In an interview on the BBC s Newsnight broadcast, Ginsburg noted that Justice John Paul Stevens was 90 when he retired and said: So I have a way to go.
Ginsburg held her tongue on Donald Trump after she was forced to apologize for remarks building up to the election, but she did say, We are not experiencing the best times, and noted that our political system is like a pendulum and it always swings back.
She did allude to Trump s campaign slogan, though, when she said that We are not as mindful of what makes America great.
Source: NBCHere s the video:Ginsburg is the oldest justice on the court by over three years.
Presumably, Donald Trump will fill the court s current vacancy, which occurred when ber conservative Justice Antonin Scalia died in February of last year.
Republicans refused to let President Obama fill the seat, but now that they control both houses of Congress and the Presidency, it s likely that Trump s nominee, Neil Gorsuch, will get through.
Even with Ginsburg on the court, that would leave us with a 4 justice minority on a nine justice court.Liberals, for good reason, are feeling very protective toward the diminutive legal powerhouse.
I m very interested in this.
says Jeanette Bavwidinski, a community organizer in Pennsylvania.
I m interested in what her daily regimen is.
Like, what are you all feeding RBG?
Is she getting enough fresh air?
Is she walking?
Is she staying low-stress?
What is she reading?
Is she reading low-stress things?
Can she eat more kale?
asks Kim Landsbergen, a forest ecologist in Ohio.
Eat more kale, that s all I can say.
We love you.
Eat more kale.
Source: Washington PostThe good news for us is that Ginsburg is taking her health quite seriously, possibly because she s already survived cancer twice.
And she was back at work two weeks after surgery.
Ginsburg works out.
Every morning, she does a routine of planks and push-ups.
That s not all.
She has performed the Canadian Air Force workout and doesn t shy away from sports like waterskiing and horseback riding.
Intellectually, she s still sharp as a tack.We ll certainly need Ginsburg to stick around for at least four more years and at the rate she s going, she probably will.Featured image via Allison Shelly/Getty Images.