The Boston Globe knocks it out of the park with their Thursday edition cover.
The cover shows an image of an actual sized AR-15, along with a bullet hole.
The cover simply reads make it stop in bold black and red letters.
It s the demand we should all be making..Here s the cover:Bold and unprecedented message in today s @BostonGlobe, using the entire front page to promote an editorial pic.twitter.com/p2tZDhHTRe Ben Volin (@BenVolin) June 16, 2016The editorial that the cover promotes begins by saying: Greed, legislative cowardice, advanced technology that is how we got here.
The United States has been pummeled by gun violence since the assault weapons ban expired in 2004.
This year, mass shootings have already claimed 61 lives.
One class of gun, semiautomatic rifles, is largely responsible.
But this nation cannot be a hostage of fear.
We can make it stop.
This follows the mass shooting that recently happened at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida.
The shooting resulted in the loss of 49 lives, with more than that number being hospitalized with serious injuries.
The shooting is the worst terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11.
The shooter, Omar Mateen, purchased the assault weapon two weeks before he executed his massacre at the night club.
Mateen was able to legally buy the firearm despite the fact that he had been previously under investigation by the FBI.Since the shooting, the U.S. has once again taken up the ritual of crying out for our leaders to do something to well, to make this stop.
However, no real progress has been made in the effort to create more regulations for assault weapons, or return to outright banning them as the Boston Globe editorial calls for.The case for banning assault weapons is laid out clearly in the editorial.
People have been able to purchase assault weapons legally since 2004.
After the assault weapons ban was repealed, they have been used in massacres across the United States.
They name six Senators whom they asses are responsible for blockading legislation that might actually do something to make this stop.
Five of the Senators are Republicans, one of them is a Democrat.
In their digital edition, the newspaper makes it easy for readers to tweet and email these individuals.We as a nation can no longer allow the gun lobby to hold us hostage.
There are limitations to the Constitution, the second amendment is not excluded.
We banned these weapons before and we can do it again.You can read the full editorial here.Featured image from screenshot via Twitter