The bashing of Donald Trump is getting so old and tiresome.
People with common sense know the truth and know what the left is trying to do.
It s the same old playbook of demonizing what you don t like repeatedly.
The problem is that Americans are finally wising up to this Alinsky strategy.
You d think the liberals are all coordinating their talking points .hummm Billy Crystal bashed Trump during his eulogy of Ali in a line similar to Clinton s speech on Tuesday: life is best when you build bridges between people, not walls.
Do you think for one minute that Trump would have gotten where he is if he d not reached out to people and built bridges literally and figuratively?
The reason Trump wants to build a literal wall with Mexico is that, without borders, we don t have a country .
We can certainly reach out to others but Trump knows open borders DO NOT WORK!
Just take a look at Europe and the EU!
What a mess!
Trump has said he wants LEGAL IMMIGRATION and doesn t want ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION!
He s protecting the people of America and that s putting America first!The problem with Billy Crystal s swipe at Trump is that he isn t practicing what he preaches.
Anyone who knows Los Angeles knows that the homes have gates and walls.
Well, Billy Crystal has walls and a fence surrounding his home people in glass houses!It was easy to get photos above of the fence and wall around Billy Crystal s home but we can t just walk onto his property uninvited.
Isn t that the same as people walking over our border illegally?Comedian Billy Crystal gave an emotional tribute during Muhammad Ali s funeral on Friday, but may have sneaked in a low-key dig at Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.
Crystal, a friend of The Champ s for more than 40 years, said at the end of his eulogy for the boxer in the KFC Yum!
Center in Louisville, Kentucky that Ali taught us that life is best when you build bridges between people, not walls.
That line Crystal said sounds similar to what Hillary Clinton said during her victory speech on Tuesday.
We believe that cooperation is better than conflict, unity is better than division, empowerment is better than resentment, and bridges are better than walls, the Democratic presidential candidate front-runner said.
Read more: Daily Mail