As Trump skips out on a planned Martin Luther King Day visit to the new Smithsonian African-American history museum after a weekend of hate-tweeting civil rights legend John Lewis, others in the GOP are attempting to match, if not surpass, The Donald in horribleness.A member of Georgia s Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners decided that the weekend preceding a holiday celebrating civil rights was exactly the right moment to join Trump in layering on the hate against John Lewis.
This backlash comes in response to Lewis absolutely accurate statement that Trump who is due to be sworn in as Grand Wizard of the United States of America on Friday is an illegitimate president.Now, most might look at Trump a guy who became President with the helpful input of a hostile foreign dictator s propaganda and fake news campaign (with a sprinkling of hacking of Trump s political opponents) and who represents everything we are against in our nation and at least agree that Lewis has a point.
But not Tommy Hunter.
Like Trump, he hopped on social media over the weekend and threw a racist tantrum.
John Lewis is a racist pig, Hunter posted on Saturday, eloquently adding that there ain t one political pundit that didn t say on November 9 that this would be Demonrats EXACT response to Trump winning.
Hunter explained that Demonrats DO NOT live in reality because the polls failed to predict that 48 percent of people who lived in the right place at the right time were able to successfully select a president that the majority didn t want.
What a bunch of idiots, Hunter said.
John Lewis district is drawn to keep him in power, he later continued.
His wins are all illegitimate.
How can other reps be concerned about working with him.
John Lewis fought, bled, was arrested for, and dedicated his entire life to fighting for the right for all Americans to vote.
Hunter?
Well, he sits on Facebook and whines about politics, spams his friends news feeds with posts about Facebook, and he enjoys fishing.Gwinnett Democratic Party, Gabe Okoye, called Hunter a disgrace to Gwinnett County in particular and Georgia in general in response to the posts, calling for the Trump fan s resignation.Hunter deleted the posts along with one demanding to know if there are any white guys on the University of Alabama s football team and several other miscellaneous posts in response to the inevitable backlash.
He also changed his privacy settings so he can continue to post hateful garbage in his circle of friends without anyone else knowing.
While I am grateful for what the Congressman did in Selma and other times during the civil rights movement, you get respect by showing respect, Hunter told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution after he got caught being a racist douchebag.
He is using his fame as a way to continually divide the races and in this case standing on the very much unsubstantiated claim that the guy I voted for [Trump] is racist and only won because of Russians hacking the election which, of course, we all know didn t occur.
Lewis, of course, is doing none of those things but Hunter actually claiming that Russia did not hack the election demonstrates his exact mindset.
Apparently, he is crazy enough to refuse to believe something even Trump has now reluctantly admitted is true yet sure enough of himself to spew racist garbage while calling an African-American civil rights hero a racist.
Featured image via Facebook