Monday night s presidential debate showed a stark contrast between two personalities.
One was calm and cool, even under stress and the other was a bloviating braggart who couldn t maintain his temper.On top of those qualities, Donald Trump is sexist and he proved it Monday night when Hillary Clinton brought up Trump s record of fat shaming a former Miss Universe.
President Obama, as the father of two girls and the husband of a strong woman, was having none of that.
One of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty contest he loves beauty contests, supporting them and hanging around them and he called this woman Miss Piggy, then he called her Miss Housekeeping because she was Latina, Clinton said Monday toward the end of the debate, as she ran through a list of things Trump has said about women.
Donald, she has a name.
Her name is Alicia Machado.
And she has become a US citizen and you can bet she is going to vote this November.
Trump didn t really have an answer for Clinton, but the next day, he took to the talk show circuit and he doubled down on the fat shaming.
On Fox & Friends, the morning after the debate, Trump said about Machado: She was the worst we ever had.
The worst, Trump said.
The absolute worst.
She was impossible, he continued.
She was the winner and you know she gained a massive amount of weight.
And it was a real problem.
We had a real problem.
Not only that her attitude.
We had a real problem with her so Hillary went back into the years and she found this girl; this was many years ago, and found the girl and talked about her like she was Mother Teresa and it was not quite that way, but that s OK. Hillary has got to do what she has got to do.
Source: AZ CentralPresident Obama had enough!
He, like every American should be, was deeply offended at Trump s fat shaming.
In a telephone interview with Steve Harvey on Wednesday, Obama said there s no way he wants that in the Oval Office: You had somebody who basically insulted women and then doubled down I think this morning in terms of how he talks about them and talks about their weight and talks about, you know, how they look instead of the content of their character and their capabilities, Obama said, which is not somebody that I want in the Oval Office.
Here s the audio:One can only imagine that Trump would use a beauty pageant system to choose the women in his cabinet.
Yes, Trump is too sexist to be President.Featured image of President Obama via Drew Angerer/Getty Images | Featured image of Donald Trump via Spencer Platt/Getty Images.