We hear a lot from Republicans about how they re going to repeal the job killing, healthcare killing, big government law unofficially called Obamacare.
These unsung heroes of the nation, almost all of them representing red state America, are going to free us and their states from the shackles of socialized medicine or so they say.Should Republicans get their way, they will absolutely decimate their states economies.According to the Economic Policy Institute, an American think tank in Washington, D.C.:Across the country, 29.8 million people would lose their health insurance if the Affordable Care Act were repealed more than doubling the number of people without health insurance.
And 1.2 million jobs would be lost not just in health care but across the board.So not only will America overall be taken back to the dark ages of pre-Obamacare, red states will be hit the hardest.
In terms of the increase in the uninsured rate per state, of the top 30 that will be hit hardest, 20 are red states that voted for Donald Trump.So how much will the uninsured rate increase with an Obamacare repeal?
Here s the list (top 20) for Trump states:The blue states that would be most affected by the repeal would be Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Illinois, Oregon, and Washington.If Republicans think their town hall events are bad now, just wait until they see what the summer of 2017 will produce.
Democrats got the brunt of it in 2011, now it s time for the GOP to reap what they ve sown.Leaked audio from the Republican retreat in Philadelphia showed that many GOPers were divided on whether to repeal or reform Obamacare.
Many expressed concern with how their constituents would react if a full repeal were put in place.
At the retreat, one Republican, Tom MacArthur of New Jersey, yelled: We re telling those people that we re not going to pull the rug out from under them, and if we do this too fast, we are in fact going to pull the rug out from under them.
Rep. Virginia Foxx chastised MacArthur and other weary Republicans as weak-kneed.
Rep. MacArthur is correct in his fears: If Obamacare is repealed, and people lose their health insurance, Republicans are going to be cast as the enemy for pulling the rug out.
And as the Economic Policy Institute showed, there are a lot of red-state Americans who will be affected.Given Trump s immense unpopularity, an Obamacare repeal would almost certainly hand the Democrats a House and Senate majority in 2018.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images