Anyone who respects democracy and the way this country works knows that protests and rallies are just part of what Americans are allowed to do to get their point across.
Donald Trump, of course, does not respect any type of protest or criticism if it goes against him, so he recently attacked Americans who are worried about their healthcare being taken away.Yesterday, Trump flipped out and attacked Americans who were protesting against his disastrous Affordable Care Act repeal on Twitter.
Implying that the protesters were actually being paid off, and were part of a liberal scheme to take him down, Trump tweeted:It is completely disgusting that a president would insult and attack citizens like this, and the women of The View nailed him for it, unanimously agreeing that protesters have every right to be upset.
Host Whoopi Goldberg called out Trump s lies perfectly when she reminded everyone that people actually rely on the Affordable Care Act for life-saving treatment and medication: People are not paid to do this.
People are pissed off!
She s absolutely right.
People s lives will actually be threatened as the GOP works to get rid of the Affordable Care Act with no reasonable replacement.
Co-host Sara Haines jumped in and added: I think there s a lot of pressure in D.C. right now considering [Donald] Trump is technically a Republican and he s overseeing this party.
Right now people are feeling the pressure in D.C. to give in, pass people, do all of this stuff.
These are the people that are going to vote them back in or not.
I think it s a good a real reminder that at the end of the day, their power comes from those votes.
While there was a bit of back and forth between co-hosts Sunny Hostin and conservative Jedediah Bila over whether or not Obamacare was cost-effective and useful to Americans (clearly, it is), co-host Joy Behar jumped in and reminded everyone that most of the people who backed Trump didn t even know that Obamacare and the Affordable Care Act were the same thing, and that those people only hated Obamacare because of their dislike for former President Barack Obama.Goldberg cut in again with some harsh criticism for Trump s plan to trash Obamacare completely: This has nothing to do with the Affordable Care Act.
A lot of what s happened with the insurance companies is that the insurance companies don t want to deal with this.
So, we re going to punish you, so you re forced to move this.
Now, here s my suggestion, because it works for a lot of people, there has to be a way, as with everything, that you use stuff that works and move what doesn t but to come in and sweep everything out seems very crazy to me.
You can watch Goldberg take down Trump below:Featured image via Pool and / Getty Images