There are many good things in the Bible messages of love, charity, and goodwill toward others and then there are the parts that should be ignored by even the most devout of Christians.
One such segment, in particular, is Deuteronomy 22:27-29, which states that women should be forced to marry their rapists, even stipulating the amount that the rapist must pay for the woman or child he raped.
It is likely this passage that led Idaho Christian Keith Strawn to drive his 14-year-old daughter to Missouri where he forced her to marry her rapist just like the Bible says.Most fathers would seek justice if a 24-year-old man raped and impregnated his 14-year-old daughter.
Strawn will spend 120 days in jail after forcing her to marry Aaron Seaton, her rapist.
The Biblical marriage lasted 120 days.
Ultimately, Strawn s daughter miscarried.
But he had an interesting defense of his decision to marry her off to her rapist:FOX31 reports:In August 2015, Strawn took his 14-year-old daughter and then 24-year-old Aaron Seaton to Missouri to consent in their marriage.
Seaton, now 25, pleaded guilty to a rape charge in April and is believed to have impregnated her.
The victim miscarried.Seaton is serving a 15-year prison sentence.
Court records show Strawn harbored and protected Seaton by allowing him to live with his teenage daughter.
If you get them pregnant then you marry them, Strawn told [the judge] during the hearing.Strawn s attorney argued that he receive a six-day jail sentence less time than Creationists believe it took God to create all of existence and probation because his client s decision to marry off his daughter to her rapist might have been a religious motivation.
(The victim) told me herself that her father asked her several times during the trip to Missouri, and even the day of the marriage, if it was something she wanted to do, the attorney said, as though that mattered.
I love my daughter very much and I would never do anything to intentionally harm her or put her in harm s way, Strawn told the judge.
I made the wrong decision, and I made that decision in duress.
It is unclear if Seaton paid Strawn the required 50 silver pieces for his daughter, as is required by the Bible, nor did he explain what he meant by duress.
Strawn was originally charged with two counts of felony injury to a child and one of accessory to rape.
As part of a plea agreement, two charges were dismissed and Strawn agreed to plead guilty to a single count of felony injury to a child.
The sentence was 110 days more than the prosecution s recommended 10-day sentence which I am sure we can all agree is pretty awesome, though it could and should be longer.Watch a report on this horrific abuse below:Featured image via screengrab