This should come as no surprise to most of us, but Trump supporter Don King let the N-word slip out during a recent speech in an Ohio Church.
It s also unlikely that you ll be surprised at the fact that Trump was sitting right behind him, smiling with glee when it happened.Trump LOVED hearing the N-word (screenshot)CNN commentator Angela Rye spoke about this terrible incident with a Trump supporter, and the racism behind the Trump campaign got even worse.
When Rye asked white Trump surrogate Joseph Borelli to Please tell me that you understand how offensive it was to use the N-word in 2016, she didn t quite get the answer she was hoping for.
In fact, it was the exact opposite.
The white panelist basically said that since rappers use the N-word , it s fair game for Don King and everyone else.
Borelli said: Have you not listened to music where other African-Americans use language far worse than this?
Rye couldn t believe her ears, and gave Borelli a chance to save himself as she begged, Please don t do that to me.
Please don t do that to me, today.
And of course, the dense Trump supporter didn t take the hint: I am going to do it, though.
You can t say that Don King is saying a word that is now suddenly unacceptable.
It s not one that I would use, but it s perhaps a word that Don King would use.
That s when Rye went off and tore him a new one.
In making her point, Rye warned, What I m saying to you, is this trivializes your candidate s black outreach.
You can watch Rye shred Borelli below:@CorporateBarbie@metroadlib RT @keithboykin: .
@angela_rye for the win!
#DonKingpic.twitter.com/otd8owrCU7 Thanks for Asking (@ykesha2001) September 21, 2016Rye also didn t hesitate to point out the fact that Trump was smirking during the N-word -heavy speech, which will undoubtedly create more trust issues with African American voters:.
@angela_rye on Trump surrogate using the N word during a minority outreach event https://t.co/fVy4GUzMZU Eugene Scott (@Eugene_Scott) September 21, 2016Featured image via screen capture