Fox News loves Wisconsin s Sheriff David Clarke.
That man is the biggest Uncle Tom ever, and they capitalize on his love of the GOP and their network as proof that they aren t flaming racists.
Sheriff Clarke sat down on Wednesday with the hosts of the ultimate team of ignorant morons the good folks at Fox and Friends.
His reason for being there?
To make sure people believe that Hillary Clinton is a racist.You see, there are many stereotypes surrounding food when it comes to black people.
Watermelon, fried chicken, grape soda, and, of course, hot sauce.
The last item on that list is Sheriff Clarke s supposed proof of Hillary Clinton s racism.
Now, Clinton has a long and well-documented history of loving to put the fiery condiment all over her food.
So much so, in fact, that she carries it with her.
And she said so in an interview with New York s Power 105.1 s Breakfast Club radio show when they asked her a question about what she always carries with her.
That doesn t stop right-wing rags from insisting that she only said that she likes hot sauce to pander to black people, especially since there s a line about it in Beyonce s Formation song, which is clearly a racial empowerment anthem.As per usual, though, facts don t matter to Sheriff Clarke or Fox and Friends hosts.
Clarke lit into Clinton over the answer, saying: I m surprised she didn t say watermelon.
just go all the way.
You know, this stuff is dehumanizing.
It s embarrassing, it s disgusting.
Clarke went on to opine that black people would vote GOP if we knew the history of the racism of the Democratic Party, conveniently leaving out the fact that in the post civil rights era, the parties have switched places when it comes to the promotion of racism and other forms of bigotry.
But, again, facts do not matter to these people.To his credit, host Brian Kilmeade did point out the obvious in this scenario regarding which party actually tries to help black people and end marginalization, and reminded the sheriff that it isn t the GOP.
Kilmeade said: No Republican is legitimately going for the black vote.
That s also an insult, isn t it?
Clarke doubled down, though, and insisted that the GOP does care about the black vote, despite all evidence to the contrary.
He told Kilmeade: There s a strategy to make that happen.
It s going to take some time.
First of all, you have to reconnect black people to their history.
That s what the Democrats have done over the last, I would say 30-40 years, is they have gone into these area and erased the history books about who really supported the move to abolish slavery as an institution in America.
Lincoln freed the slaves.
And then the Civil Rights Act of 1964, it s was Democrats that were standing in the way.
And it took a yeomen s effort by Republicans to pass the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
That s why I say if we reconnect black people with their history, they ll open their eyes and they ll know what to do.
Well, you can t fix stupid or make the ignorant accept facts that do not toe the line of enforcing their own beliefs.
Shameful, but true.Watch the video below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture