You ve got to admire Barack Obama s ability to speak plainly, yet deliver a blow so hard that it burns a person s soul.Donald Trump has not had a good time of it lately at all.
A lawsuit alleging that he raped a 13-year-old girl at one of billionaire pedophile Jeffrey Epstein s infamous sex parties was refiled.
He fired his woman-abusing campaign manager.
The world has mocked him after it was revealed his campaign is completely broke.
It was revealed that he has basically used his campaign funds as a piggy bank for his own companies and his family.
He the alleged billionaire was reduced to begging for money so he can run television ads attacking Hillary Clinton over Benghazi and other ridiculous right-wing conspiracy theories.
Trump, his hairpiece, and his ego are all reeling in the wake of the stretch of bad news he has faced.In an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek published Thursday, the President discussed a number of serious issues but as has been recent tradition, Obama couldn t help delivering a devastating blow to the Republican presidential nominee.
I talk to that as tough as things seem right now, do not believe people when they tell you they wish they could go back to the good old days, the President said.
Because the good old days aren t I m now old enough where I remember some of those good old days.
Asked if it annoys him that someone who does want to bring back the good old days and who is America s most successful businessman, at least by his own reckoning, Obama laid into Trump: Well, I there s no successful businessman in America who actually thinks the most successful businessman in the country is Donald Trump.
I know those guys, and so do you, and I guarantee you, that s not their view, the President quipped.Trump is not the successful businessman he claims to be.
He s failed at selling steaks, running a travel website, and who can forget the disaster that was Trump Vodka or his ridiculous board game?
Trump University?
Trump bottled water?
His vitamin pyramid scheme?
Donald Trump s life is a string of failures he was able to somehow overcome because he was already rich thanks to his daddy s money.
A golf course owned by Trump narrowly avoided bankruptcy just this month.President Obama has spent his final term approaching Republicans with his claws out something we can expect more of as the presidential race heats up.Listen to the remarks below (skip to the final minute):Featured image via Getty Images (Pool)/Chip Somodevilla