Hillary Clinton has a thing for voodoo her new book describes a voodoo moment but she s gone down this path before.
Who does this?
Hillary Clinton reveals she was tempted to make voodoo dolls of certain members of the news media and Congress, and then stick them full of pins.
So Clinton wrote in her 494-page new memoir, What Happened, which was released today.In the book, Clinton complained that the attacks against her use of the private email server were untrue or wildly overstated, and motivated by partisan politics.
CLINTON SPOKE ABOUT HER VOODOO DOLL OBSESSION:It was a dumb mistake.
But an even dumber scandal.
It was like quicksand: the more you struggle, the deeper you sink.
At times, I thought I must be going crazy.
Other times, I was sure it was the world that had gone nuts.
Sometimes I snapped at my staff.
I was tempted to make voodoo dolls of certain members of the press and Congress and stick them full of pins.
Mostly, I was furious at myself.VOODOO MOMENT #2!In her previous memoir, Hard Choices, Clinton described attending a voodoo spirit ceremony with a voodoo priest during her honeymoon with Bill Clinton in Haiti in 1975.SHE SPOKE ABOUT VOODOO IN HER MEMOIR HARD CHOICES : One of the most memorable experiences of our trip was meeting a local voodoo priest named Max BeauvoirHe invited us to attend one of his ceremonies.
We saw Haitians seized with spirits walk on hot coals, bite the heads off live chickens, and chew glass, spit out the shards, and not bleed.
At the end of the ceremony, the people claimed the dark spirits had departed.BILL SPOKE ABOUT THE VISIT TOO:In his memoir My Life, the former president wrote a vivid account of a trip the couple s first trip to Haiti in 1975:A voodoo priest gave what Clinton described as a brief course in voodoo theology.
And then the late-afternoon ceremony began.
Clinton wrote: After several minutes of rhythmic dancing to pounding drums, the spirits arrived, seizing a woman and a man.
The man proceeded to rub a burning torch all over his body and walk on hot coals without being burned.
The woman, in a frenzy, screamed repeatedly, then grabbed a live chicken and bit its head off.
Then the spirits left and those who had been possessed fell to the ground.
Is this supposed to make the Clintons more relatable to the voodoo community?
Haitians are probably sticking pins in Bill and Hillary voodoo dolls after the Clintons robbed them of funds raised after the earthquake in Haiti.Read more: Breitbart News