We ll wait for Nancy Pelosi to call this movement exactly what it is an astro-turf movement.
The hate cops and hate white people movement is a George Soros funded, Obama, Eric Holder and Al Sharpton inspired movement created to pit the haves and the have nots against each other.
To hell with America and it s great people, this is about something much more important to the Left, it s about a divided nation totally dependent upon the government.No justice no peace!
We have nothing to lose but our chains -Jonathan Butler, son of very successful multi-millionaire parents.Jonathan Butler, a central figure in the protests at the University of Missouri, is an Omaha native and the son of a railroad vice president, the Omaha World-Herald reports.Butler refused food last week in a move to force the university system s president, Timothy M. Wolfe, from office.
Wolfe resigned Monday and Butler ended his hunger strike.Jonathan Butler played high-school football at Omaha Central High, where he won a state championship, and earned a bachelor s degree in business administration from Mizzou, the newspaper reports.
He is working toward a master s degree in educational leadership and policy.He is a member of a prominent Omaha family.
The newspaper says that Butler s father is Eric L. Butler, executive vice president for sales and marketing for the Union Pacific Railroad.
His 2014 compensation was $8.4 million, according to regulatory filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Via: SLTButler s turn from silent type to activist wasn t a complete surprise to his old football coach, Jay Ball, who remembered how Butler worked hard to bulk himself up in order to make the move from the junior varsity team to varsity.
In his senior year, Butler started on a team that won the state title.Ball said Butler wasn t a big guy standing about 5-foot-9, tops.
But Ball practically had to kick Butler out of the weight room because the aspiring player spent so much time there, pushing himself.
I can remember watching him squat, Ball said.
His eyeballs bulged out.
Ball said Butler led by example, not rah-rah bravado.
He was really smart, Ball said, a very coachable kid.
Ball said Butler s drive, tenacity and effort probably served him well these past weeks.In his senior yearbook, Butler is shown twice: once in a tie for his class portrait and once in a tiny football team photograph.
According to teachers and administrators, he was not the kind of student who organized events or served on the student council.
Instead, he was a quiet, solid student who paid attention.Now Butler is the public face of a protest that drew national attention and felled two top leaders.
Butler and others have said he s not the center several women at Mizzou plus the school s student body president took more public positions earlier.
But his hunger strike, which stretched for eight days, seems to have been the catalyst.Where did this activism come from?Butler did not respond to a World-Herald reporter s requests for interviews.
His parents declined to comment.
They traveled to Missouri on Monday.
A family friend described the family as incredibly humble and low profile.Butler has said in news reports that his paternal grandfather, an attorney helping the poor in New York City, was a big influence.
So were his parents: Eric is a Union Pacific executive and Cynthia is a former educator who runs an advocacy program.
They founded Joy of Life Ministries in their basement, and it has grown into a church now based at 56th Street and Sorensen Parkway.Butler has said that the police shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014 and the subsequent protests there marked a turning point for him.
He spent time in Ferguson, a two-hour drive from Columbia, lending his voice two summers ago.Here is Butler, the self proclaimed speaking to students.
I am a revolutionary.