A DC rally meant to prove the existence of the long-debunked conspiracy theory known as Pizzagate reached a painfully stupid peak when the crowd couldn t agree on whether or not a secret Jewish cabal was to blame.For those that can t recall this particularly bit of idiocy coming from the right, Pizzagate was a conspiracy floated by right-wing fringe sites that claimed Hillary Clinton and other high-ranking politicians were involved in a child-sex ring in the basement of a pizza restaurant in Washington D.C.
The conspiracy had been repeatedly disproven, but the requirement of having at least two brain cells and the ability to use them meant that a vocal group of nutjobs believed a cover-up was at play.
It would have been mostly harmless if not for the fact that a believer of the conspiracy brought a rifle into the actual pizza place demanding to see the sex dungeon in the basement.
He was arrested, but not before discovering the pizza place has no basement.His arrest did not stop the conspiracy.
The remaining fanatics decided to host the DC rally to keep the conspiracy alive.
Unfortunately, a gathering of this size of people dumb enough to believe the conspiracy in the first place was bound to have problems.
It didn t take long for cracks to emerge.
Naturally, xenophobia played a part.Members of the crowd some of whom carpooled in a giant trailer decorated with Trump decals grew tense when one speaker defended his personal theory that a Zionist plot was at the heart of Pizzagate.
Others said they supported Israel.
A fight ensued.
Will Sommer of The Hill was there to witness the meltdown in all its glory:Pizzagate rally has switched into high context mode.
References to international conspiracies, lines from the Book of Ephesians Will Sommer (@willsommer) March 25, 2017Pizzagate rally divided over Zionism!
I don t have a problem with the state of Israel speaker sez.
Man in crowd: Well I do!
Will Sommer (@willsommer) March 25, 2017Speaker has wisely moved on from claim that pedo-sadism is inherent to Zionism.
Organizer defends his right to make claim.
Will Sommer (@willsommer) March 25, 2017Before that debate had been settled, the crowd had moved on.
Other unrelated points of contention were brought up.Pizzagate rally going off the rails.
Discussions of apocryphal Christian lesser gods angels as God s scientists.
Crowd restless.
Will Sommer (@willsommer) March 25, 2017Pizzagate rally is getting off course.
Now talking about father's rights, family court, pro se litigants, American Bar Association.
pic.twitter.com/7RJi1AbjWg Will Sommer (@willsommer) March 25, 2017Meanwhile, this happened This family of 5 wore matching Pizzagate outfits.
pic.twitter.com/ADyZhN8MLV Will Sommer (@willsommer) March 25, 2017But while Pizzagate believers rallied, the perpetrator of the myth, InfoWars, publicly apologized for helping start it.
They did this not out of the kindness of their own hearts, but because the owner of Comet Pizza threatened to sue them if they didn t stop lying.
Donald Trump recently gave InfoWars a press pass to attend White House press briefings.Featured image via Will Sommer/Twitter