For the last couple of months, I ve been seeing numerous stories about the increasing rate of death among middle-aged whites.
As a middle-aged white person myself I was curious, so I ve been looking at the articles.
As I did so, I noticed an interesting trend.
See if you can spot it:A week after it was published by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a paper by the Princeton economists Anne Case and Angus Deaton showing that middle-aged white Americans are dying in much larger numbers than they used to is still the talk of the town.
The New YorkerSomething startling is happening to middle-aged white Americans.
NY TimesBirth of a Plague NewsweekAnd here s the most recent and perfect example: according to new research into a crisis that is increasingly worrying healthcare officials and policymakers.
LA TimesIsn t it amazing how white people dying is suddenly a HUGE problem that needs to be addressed?
Apparently, much of the spike is attributable to drugs, drinking, suicide and lack of proper healthcare.
That, in turn, is attributable to the Great Recession as millions of people s lives were destroyed by forces outside of their control.Not to belittle their suffering (much) but boohoo.
The black community has been dealing with this kind of widespread economic destruction for decades.
There s a reason that every other corner in a ghetto is a liquor store (drive through parts of D.C. and you ll see what I mean) and drug use is rampant and it s not because black people are morally deficient as some people (conservatives) would like you to believe.But now that white people are facing the same levels of despair and lack of opportunity, they re responding in much the same way and America is very VERY concerned about their welfare.
We need to DO SOMETHING about this crisis!This hypocrisy ties into the sudden about face on the war on drugs.
Once upon a time, society needed to throw every drug user into to jail for decades at a time to protect society.
That most of those arrested just happened to be black was just a coincidence, surely.
These days, however, drug use has exploded in white neighborhoods as meth and heroin use are skyrocketing.But instead of demands for more mass incarceration, we hear pleas for mercy and understanding.
We have to DO SOMETHING to help these poor victims.But only the white ones.If your blood isn t boiling right now, you haven t been paying attention.
MuriKKKa.Featured image via micetrap