In 2013, a year after Mitt Romney s stunning completely predictable defeat in the presidential election, the Republican National Committee decided they needed to revamp their image.
RNC head Reince Priebus told his party that they would reinvent themselves and become a more inclusive GOP he especially wanted to reach out to Hispanic voters.
Latinos are one of the fastest growing voting blocs in the country and the Republican Party needs these voters in order to win future elections.
So, in order to further the party s goal, the RNC hired Mexican-American Ruth Guerra to head up their Hispanic Outreach.Everything was going very well (as well as it could go in a party that really loathes the people they are trying to reach), but then a wrench was thrown into their plans: Donald Trump.
The billionaire started his campaign by slamming Hispanics.
He called Mexicans criminals and rapists, he promised to build the Great Wall of Murica and make Mexico pay for it.
His entire campaign has been built on how much he hates Latinos and other minorities.
This has caused problems within the party and now, according to multiple sources, it is the reason Ruth Guerra is leaving her position in the RNC.The New York Times reported:Ms. Guerra told colleagues this year that she was uncomfortable working for Mr. Trump, according to two R.N.C.
aides who requested anonymity to speak candidly about the difficulties surrounding the party s standard-bearer.When Guerra was questioned about her feelings about Trump, she deflected, saying, I ve had a great nearly two years at the RNC, and I m excited for the new opportunities that I will have at AAN [American Action Network super-PAC].
Of course, she isn t going to say anything about him, her career would be ruined if she spoke out against him.
Trump has absolutely no qualms about destroying people; just look at what he tried to do to Megyn Kelly when she just asked him a question he didn t like during a debate.
The moment Guerra said that she s leaving because she believes the presidential nominee of the party she works for is a xenophobic asshat, she d be blackballed.
Her career would never survive his wrath and she knows it.
That s the reality of Trump s rise to power.Featured image via Facebook