Supporters of the rule of law crashed a pro-illegal rally on August 4, 2017 at San Bernardino City Hall.
This was a reaction to San Bernardino getting a letter from Jeff Sessions threatening to withhold their federal funds.
Using the left s tactics on them is pretty great:Did you listen to the rhetoric coming from the speakers who were pushing open borders?
Shame on them for using religion to break the law!
The SEIU has been called Obama s Purple Army so they bussed in protesters for the protest They are usually paid to attend protests.
They are more like Obama s useful idiots because they lose if more illegals come to take their jobs.The Press Enterprise reported:Attorney General Jeff Sessions announcement that San Bernardino would not be eligible for crime-reduction funding spurred a demonstration outside San Bernardino City Hall on Friday, Aug. 4.On Thursday, Aug. 3, Sessions sent letters to four cities struggling with gun violence, including San Bernardino, telling them they would not be eligible for a program that provides money to combat drug trafficking and gang crime unless they confirm their cooperation with immigration officials.The letter asks if correctional and detention facilities will honor a written request from the Department of Homeland Security to hold a foreign national for up to 48 hours beyond the scheduled release date.In San Bernardino, that s up to the San Bernardino County Sheriff s Department, not the city.
Regardless, the Sheriff s Department, in a statement, said it can t comply because it would be unconstitutional.
San Bernardino is not going to be bullied, said Kesha McGee, a lead organizer with Inland Congregations United for Change, at the planned demonstration.McGee said the interfaith group wanted to show support for the San Bernardino immigrant community.
We are a community of unity, she said.
We all deserve to be here.
Religious leaders from tInland Congregations United for Change and immigrant rights activists from the Inland area planned the Friday press conference outside City Hall to condemn Sessions announcement.
Assemblywoman Eloise Reyes, D-San Bernardino, was at the event.