Many are wondering if the Las Vegas mass killer acted alone.
In a video that was taken by cab driver Cori Langdon as she entered the Mandalay Bay Casino on what she thought was a routine drive, there appears to be evidence of gunshots coming from more than one direction during the worst mass shooting in US history.
(Watch the video HERE) Today, a picture of a receipt was posted on Facebook by Tony Hernandez Armenta who claims he delivered room service to the killer at the Mandalay Bay Casino.
The receipt clearly shows the server was delivering food for 2 guests.
Las Vegas Sheriff Lombardo also suggested that the killer was radicalized and that they are looking into the source of his radicalization.
Is it possible the killer s girlfriend, who is originally from Indonesia, with the highest Muslim population in the world had something to do with the planning of the massacre?
Where is the woman who was identified as being Hispanic that yelled, You re all going to f*cking die today!
from the front row of the concert to all of the fans, just prior to the start of the?
concertNow, this A gun store owner has stepped forward to identify a very expensive gun that was purchased from his store just hours before the killer arrived in Vegas.
The gun was not found by the police in his hotel suite.
Where is the gun now?
Did someone else use the gun?Daily Mail Mass killer Stephen Paddock bought a high-powered hunting rifle just hours before he arrived in Las Vegas on his mission of death, DailyMail.com can reveal.Mass killer Stephen Paddock bought a high-powered hunting rifle just hours before he arrived in Las Vegas on his mission of death, DailyMail.com can reveal.But bizarrely the rifle wasn t one of the 23 weapon haul found by police in his sniper s nest hotel suite.Paddock paid $600 for a Ruger American .308 bolt-action rifle with an 18-inch barrel and four round capacity from Guns & Guitars in his hometown of Mesquite.He then calmly drove 80 miles to check in at the Mandalay Bay hotel on the Vegas Strip from where he rained bullets down on the Route 91 Harvest music festival killing 59 people and injuring a further 537.A gunsmith at the store revealed Paddock was calm and normal when he bought the weapon at around 3pm on September 28.
The worker, who goes by the name Skipper Speece, said it took around 20 minutes for the store to carry out vetting procedures and Paddock passed with flying colors raising no alarm bells.He then left the shop with the weapon but it s unclear what happened next.