Israel is in a class all by itself when it comes to perpetuating some of the worst human rights violations of any country on earth today.
For decades, Israel has had a policy of ethnically cleansing and robbing the indigenous Palestinian population of its lands and resources and killing them when they resist the atrocities committed against them under the guise of self-defense.
Now, an Israeli military general, someone who is one of the leaders of Israel s killing machine, has come out and admitted that Israel today shares many of the same elements as Nazi Germany.Addressing an audience at Tel Yitzhak in central Israel on Holocaust Remembrance Day, Israel Defense Forces Major General Yair Golan dropped a bombshell on the Israel s racist establishment when he said: It s scary to see horrifying developments that took place in Europe begin to unfold here.
The Holocaust should bring us to ponder our public lives and, furthermore, it must lead anyone who is capable of taking public responsibility to do so.
Because if there is one thing that is scary in remembering the Holocaust, it is noticing horrific processes which developed in Europe particularly in Germany 70, 80, and 90 years ago, and finding remnants of that here among us in the year 2016.
The general was immediately attacked by Israeli government officials.
Justice minister Ayelet Shaked told local media that Golan was a little confused and that he showed a lack of understanding, if not a disrespect of the Holocaust.
Yet, it is Shaked who has shown disrespect for humanity when she advocated for the genocide of Palestinians.
Here s what she posted on her Facebook page two years ago: They are all enemy combatants, and their blood shall be on all their heads.
Now this also includes the mothers of the martyrs, who send them to hell with flowers and kisses.
They should follow their sons, nothing would be more just.
They should go, as should the physical homes in which they raised the snakes.
Otherwise, more little snakes will be raised there.
The next day, Palestinian teenager Muhammad Abu Khudair was kidnapped and burned alive in Jerusalem.
Neftali Bennett, leader of one of Israel s right-wing parties also called on General Golan to retract his statements.
Bennett is at the forefront of Israel s genocidal and war mongering saber-rattling.
He has said of Palestinians: I already killed lots of Arabs in my life, and there is absolutely no problem with that.
We should keep in mind that these are not two government ministers with fascist tendencies in the midst of a normal government.
Israel today is inherently driven by beliefs that makes the general correct in comparing Israel with Nazi Germany.
Zionism, which drives Israel, is an ideology whose adherents advocate for a pure Jewish state.
In a land where the majority of the population was not Jewish (97%) in the early 20th Century, Zionists have always advocated for the destruction of the inferior non-Jewish Palestinians to create and maintain their Jewish state.
100 years later, with 2/3 of the Palestinian population ethnically cleansed and not allowed to return to their ancestral homeland, the Israelis see the remaining Palestinians in the Occupied West Bank, Gaze Strip, as well as those inside of Israel, as a demographic threat.The rhetoric of Shaked and Bennett is not the exception to the rule of the state of Israel: It is the norm.
For the Palestinians, this will continue to mean their oppression and gradual destruction.
It is up to the American people to say no to the billions of dollars a year we send to a country that is thirsty for the removal of an entire people in order to achieve its pure state.Featured image via video screenshot