Of all the media networks to expose Donald Trump, the last one America would expect it to be is Fox News.
The conservative network is a known favorite of Trump s, and is possibly the only mainstream channel to continue perpetuating Trump s lies and groveling at his feet but the network has just aired an interview that contains some truly incriminating information.According to legal experts, Trump put himself in jeopardy and furthered the potential for obstruction of justice when Fox host Ainsley Earhardt asked Trump about his recent admission that he did not tape his conversations with former FBI Director James Comey, even though Trump had previously suggested that he did.
Of course, Trump took the bait like the idiot he is and incriminated himself without even realizing it.
This was part of Trump s response when Earhardt asked him why he lied: I didn t tape and I don t have any tape and I didn t tape.
But, when he found out that there may be tapes out there, whether it s governmental tapes or anything else, and who knows, I think his story may have changed.
I mean, you ll have to take a look at that because then he has to tell what actually took place at the events.
And my story didn t change.
My story was always a straight story.
My story was always the truth.
But you ll have to determine for yourself whether or not his story changed.
But, I did not tape.
When Earhardt congratulated Trump for finding such a smart way to make sure he stayed honest in those hearings , Trump made it even worse.
He replied: Well, it wasn t very stupid, I can tell you that.
According to Bloomberg, Trump s lies about the tapes could mean major legal woes for the undeserving POTUS.
Bloomberg reported:The tweets targeting Comey could be relevant to an obstruction investigation, even if the tapes don t actually exist, said Julie O Sullivan, a former federal prosecutor who worked on the team investigating Bill and Hillary Clinton during the Whitewater inquiry.
It s basically trying to tell Comey, Don t say anything, said O Sullivan, now a law professor at Georgetown University.Everything that Trump says now whether it s on Twitter or in an interview can be used against him in the Russia scandal.
Trump s ego got the better of him during this interview, and Fox News unknowingly used it against him.
Trump basically walked into this one, and he only has his big mouth to thank.
You can watch the interview below:Featured image via Pool / Getty Images