Racism is pretty prevalent on the interwebs.
Generally, if an article even mentions something to do with Black culture, the racists are out in force.
This happened so frequently on articles regarding hip-hop and the like on the Oregonian, which is, by the way, the west coast s largest paper, that one of their writers decided to address the problem of racism in their comments sections.The piece, entitled Dear Readers: Stop Being Racist About Hip Hop, rips the racists in the comments sections to shreds.
The writer of the article, David Greenwald, first talks about how he is no longer shocked at the racism he encounters, even on the supposedly liberal west coast, then goes on to treat his readers to a sampling of the racism in his comments sections, and even in his email inbox:I got an email over the weekend about our recent Kanye West stories.
No subject.
It didn t need one.
This is news?
the reader wrote.
About some n rapping?
Every time the Oregonian covers hip-hop music, a rich and beautiful American art form invented to share the pain and joys and narratives of inner-city black lives over 30 years ago, readers comment with hatred.
Here, from Monday night alone, enjoy a few choice notes about Kendrick Lamar, the most important musician currently working in American music and new winner of five glimmering Grammy awards: Best rap album?
That, my friends, is a world class oxymoron, Yardbird tells us.
Not since Kanye West, has an individual with so little talent, been so worshiped and idolized by so many.
Even a superstar like Adelle has been sucked into this clown s, Music,' DonRon adds.
Adele is spelled with one L : she is also a blues singer who owes everything to the African-American creativity that birthed hip-hop.And that s just for starters.
Greenwald then goes on to try to educate the ignoramuses that make up so much of his readership on the beauty and riches that hip-hop culture has given America.
However, at the end of the day, he says he understands that he cannot school people determined to be so ignorant.
He ends the piece by saying: If you dismiss hip-hop culture, if you paint it all with the same ignorant brush, if you say hip-hop masterpiece is an oxymoron, if Beyonc and Kendrick Lamar and Kanye West are just too black: you are a racist and you are wrong, and this will be the last time I write for you.
And good for him.
Unsurprisingly, the very racists who need to take what Mr. Greenwald is saying into account completely missed the point of the article, and responded with gasp!
more racism.
First, there were the ones whose response was to disparage the writer and the work of the hip hop artists, all the while using racist language:Then, of course, there was that one person who just had to pop out and declare themselves an expert on all things black because he once knew a black person:And of course, those are just what is there as of this writing, with the article being quite new.
I am sure the ugly and ignorance will continue.
Unfortunately, though, at the end of the day, the very people who needed to hear David Greenwald s message have turned a deaf ear, and will remain as ignorant as they were prior to reading his brilliant piece.Featured image from video screen capture from The Oregonian