There s something wildly entertaining about conservative infighting, especially when the person on the receiving end is Ann Coulter.
She s not only racist, she s unapologetically racist, so clearly her choice for president is Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.As some say, the Republican Party may not be racist, but most racists are Republican.
This was proved more so now than ever, and calling Coulter out on her anti-immigration/pro-Trump stance is GOP strategist Liz Mair.It all happened on MSNBC s Hardball where host Chris Matthews invited the two women on to discuss their viewpoints.
After several minutes of meaningless banter, Coulter eventually settled on saying: It s all about immigration.
It doesn t really matter what a Republican s position is on saving Social Security or how they re going to reform Medicare.
Americans are being outvoted by foreigners, and Americans have been begging their own party to shut it down, to stop this endless immigration for decades now.
As well as insisting that Donald Trump is the first one to actually take America s side on immigration.
That s why he is sweeping the polls.
Mair jumped in and shut her down, saying: I think that that s a patently ludicrous notion.
Most of the time, when we ve been looking at amnesty fights, they ve actually been shut down by a set of groups that are funded by population-control enthusiast liberal who is actually involved with zero-population growth and the Sierra Club.
That s who s actually shut it down.
It s not actually in any way advancing the economic interests of the American people.
Free-market economists actually agree with that.
Mair even goes so far as to call Trump a liberal.
However, Trump is more of a I m gonna say what makes me popular kind of guy, and since his racism is working, he s run with it, or rather, on it.
When Mair brought up that Coulter used to support Romney, Coulter bit back: My ideal ticket is Trump/Romney.
That s what I m really hoping for.
That s a dynamite combination.
She s not wrong, that ticket certainly would be explosive for the United States, but not in a good way.
Mair, however decided to continue tearing Coulter apart, saying: That is the proof right there that you are in no way conservative and no way interested in conservative policy.
It s true.
Coulter seems to only be concerned with being as racist as possible, and Trump fits the bill for that.
Her love of Romney likely stems from the 47% remarks that were blatantly racist in his attack against President Obama and his supporters.
And while conservative politics aren t always that blatantly racist, they aren t exactly inconspicuous either.
Mair seems to believe that Trump supporters are just liberals who just happen to hate Mexicans.
Here s the thing BOTH women are wrong about pretty much everything.So, while it was a pleasure to see Coulter get torn apart by a fellow conservative, Mair needs to realize that Coulter is pretty much the exact epitome of modern-day conservatism and conservative policy in the new GOP.
Video/Featured image: YouTube