Trump s biggest champion on the other side of the pond, Mr. Brexit himself, made a joke about Trump that s just a taste of how much the world is already laughing at us for electing him.
Nigel Farage is reportedly meeting with Trump at some point very soon, but before he does that, he decided to go there: Don t touch her, for God s sake!
Of course, he s referring to the Access Hollywood tape where Trump bragged about kissing women without their permission, and boasted that his star power allows him to do anything he wants, even grab them by the pussy.
That tape should have sunk his candidacy and probably would have in every other civilized nation.
It didn t here, the world got a huge shock, and now the world sees just how ridiculous we really can be.If that weren t true, Farage wouldn t have made that joke in a radio interview earlier this week.
He wants to be the go-between for Trump and Theresa May, the U.K. s new prime minister, although he d really like to be Trump s ambassador to the E.U.
(what could possibly go wrong there?).
Don t touch her, isn t all Farage said.
He went on with: If it comes to it, I could be there as the responsible adult role, to make sure everything s OK. Oh holy hell.
Farage has already been branded as the U.K. s Donald Trump, but this is ridiculous.
A national leader joking about the sexual assault another national leader committed?
Joking about playing the responsible adult when Trump meets with Theresa May (or maybe any other female leader)?We just threw up a little in our mouths.What Farage did, besides help Trump solidify our position as the world s biggest punch line, is marginalize and objectify his own prime minister.
But that doesn t matter, because of course it doesn t. If there s any doubt, though, that the world is starting to whisper, cast furtive glances, chuckle, and then burst out with pointing and loud guffawing, it s this snippet from The Guardian: Farage could literally curl up on Trump s lap to stop him assaulting female premiers.
If they widened his frottage-combating duties it could be a fulltime job Trump will be in the presence of many females a day, and you have to remember he is a man whose sole, frequently stated reason for not coming on to his own daughter is the fact they re related.
So Farage could be kept in the Oval Office as an anti-grope Jeeves.
Congratulations, Trumpkins.
One of the things you claimed Obama had done has now come true for real, and Trump hasn t even taken office yet.Featured image by Win McNamee via Getty Images