Donald Trump, if nothing else, is the white man s last grasp at power.
Look for these next four years to be, much like our entire history, all about the white man, only this time, his role will be victim.On Tuesday, Rep Mo Brooks (R-AL) made his plea for the apparently endangered white majority by saying that putting Trump s Attorney General pick, Jeff Sessions, through a nomination hearing was partly due to a war on whites.
During the Ronald Reagan administration, Sessions was nominated as a federal judge.One of Sessions primary critics at his Senate hearing three decades ago was Thomas Figures, a black assistant U.S. attorney who had previously worked for him.
Figures, who died in 2015, told the committee that Sessions had called him boy more than once a slur meant to demean and disrespect when used to address black men.Sessions also joked about the Ku Klux Klan, according to Figures: He recalled Sessions describing the KKK as OK until he learned that they smoked marijuana.
And Figures said Sessions had called the NAACP, the storied African-American civil rights group, anti-American.
Source: Huffington PostDuring his first confirmation hearing, more than 30 years ago, Sessions was deemed too racist to serve on the bench.
Is it any wonder that today, the same questions have arisen?Sessions denies that he still holds these beliefs.
During this round of hearings, Session said that the KKK had a hateful ideology and that he supports civil rights.
He does, however, support voter ID laws, which most courts agree are discriminatory.Brooks, though, who s from Sessions home state, paints a different picture.
He sees Sessions as a victim.
He also sees white people as victims of the Voting Rights Act.The Alabama congressman argued that the VRA treated certain areas differently by requiring federal pre-clearance of changes to voting laws in states where there had been a history of voter suppression, until that provision was gutted by the Supreme Court in 2013.
That s only a tool that the Democrats are using, he said of VRA pre-clearance.
It s really about political power and racial division and what I ve referred to on occasion as the war on whites, he added.
They are trying to motivate the African-American vote to vote-bloc for Democrats by using every Republican is a racist tool that they can envision, even if they have to lie about it.
Source: Talking Points MemoHere s the audio:Whether or not Sessions is confirmed (he probably will be), look for these next four years to be a major crackdown on all sorts of civil liberties, including freedom of speech and freedom of the press.
Minorities will not be safe and neither will women.
Legal marijuana could also be a victim of the Trump presidency.Featured image via Mo Brooks Facebook page