With the nation focused on anti-LGBT religious liberty battles, a Mississippi landlord has done something that brings focus back to one of our nation s prior fights over religious liberty the right to discriminate against interracial couples.
In 2011, a poll taken among Republicans in the Red state of Mississippi revealed that a shocking 46 percent of them want to ban interracial marriages outright.In 1946, then-Mississippi Governor Theodore Bilbo wrote that [p]urity of race is a gift of God And God, in his infinite wisdom, has so ordained it that when man destroys his racial purity, it can never be redeemed and that God was the original segregationist.
He may be dead, and African-Americans may have rights now (including the freedom to marry anyone they choose) that they did not have when Bilbo was in charge, but his spirit lives on in RV park landlord Gene Baker, who admitted over the weekend that he evicted an interracial couple simply because they were an interracial couple.
Me and my husband, not ever in 10 years have we experienced any problem, said Erica Flores Dunahoo, who is Hispanic and Native American.
Nobody s given us dirty looks.
This is our first time.
Her husband, a former National Guardsman of more than a decade, is black something that bothers the racist landlord s friends, neighbors, and church.In February, Dunahoo and her husband, Standley Hoskins, and their two children were set to move into an RV sace to save money and get our life on track, the lighter half of the interracial couple explained.
On February 28, she gave Baker a check for $275 to pay for a month s rent.
This should have been the end of it she paid her rent and inexchange she should have been allowed to stay.
In fact, there were no problems that first day.
He was real nice, she said.
He invited me to church and gave me a hug.
I bragged on him to my family.
Unfortunately, the next morning, Baker called her, fuming:Dunahoo told him that she didn t realize it would be a problem.
It is, after all, 2016.
Oh, it s a big problem with the members of my church, my community and my mother-in-law, Baker told her.
They don t allow that black and white shacking.
We re not shacking.
We re married, she replied, but Baker would have none of it, explaining that it s the same thing.
You don t talk like you wouldn t be with no black man, the church-going Christian continued.
If you would had come across like you were with a black man, we wouldn t have this problem right now.
Dunahoo explained that her husband is not a thug, and told Baker of his distinguished and lengthy service to our country, but that didn t matter to the landlord.
All he saw was black.
He returned the $275 and forced them to leave.
They took refuge at another RV park, where rent is higher $325 a month.Baker maintains that he is not a racist, telling the Clarion-Ledger that he only refused to provide a space to the couple because of the issues members of his church and community had with a black man and a light-skinned woman shacking.
He even says they would be welcome to attend his church.
They just could not be members, because the church does not believe in interracial marriage.To avoid future issues, he plans to completely close his RV park down just in case he ever encounters another interracial couple who wishes to rent a space: I m closing it down, and that solves the problem.
Recently, the Mississippi state Senate passed a religious liberty bill allowing businesses to deny service to the LGBT community just like they used to do (and some individuals currently still do) with interracial couples.Hate is hate and unfortunately the state of Mississippi is full of it, apparently.Watch a report on this blatant and unabashed act of discrimination below:Featured image via screengrab