Larry King has been in the radio and journalism business since 1957 and he s a longtime friend of Donald Trump, so what he just said about him is significant.Trump has taken a ton of criticism since taking office over two months ago, and rightfully so.After all, Trump s scandals continued to stack up and his ineptitude has no end in sight.
He opens his mouth when he should keep it shut and he embarrasses himself and this nation with every word he utters and every move he makes.
He would rather golf instead of doing his damn job and he appears hell bent on destroying our government.
He insults our allies and praises dictators.
To make a long story short, Trump has turned America into a laughingstock around the globe.And Larry King put an exclamation point on that fact on Monday during an appearance on Sirius XM s Tell Me Everything with host John Fugelsang.King told Fugelsang that Trump s presidency is the most ridiculous he s ever seen and went on to slam Trump for appointing people to head departments they want to destroy, specifically referring to Betsy DeVos and Scott Pruitt, who run the Department of Education and the Environmental Protection Agency.
It s almost funny, King began.
To run the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), he hires an anti-environment guy.
To run the Secretary of Education, he hires someone who doesn t like education.
Doesn t like public schools.
That s weird, man.
King then further expanded upon his thoughts on the environment by calling out Trump s climate change denial.
Trump gets us out of climate change.
Who doesn t notice climate change?
It s obviously caused by carbon dioxide, he continued.
To act like it doesn t exist, that s insane.
Miami Beach is not going to exist after 2100.
Come on.
That s climate change.
To act like it doesn t exist is insane.
I ve got to admit that so far, this is one of the most ridiculous presidencies I ve ever seen, King concluded.Here s the video via Twitter.
This is one of the most ridiculous presidencies I ve ever seen, @kingsthings told @JohnFugelsang of his friend Donald Trump.
pic.twitter.com/17X6fo7n7J SiriusXMPolitics (@SXMPolitics) April 3, 2017Now we can expect Donald Trump s next Twitter tantrum to be all about how his friend somehow betrayed him by telling the truth.Featured Image: Screenshot