Wikileaks, which is more a conspiracy enterprise than it is a whistleblowing watchdog these days, put up a poll on Twitter that asked users to tell them which health issue they thought was causing Hillary s coughing fits and unusual body movements.
All four of their answers have been bandied about by conservatives everywhere, as they try and diagnose Hillary in a frantic attempt to prove she s unfit to be President.They ve since deleted the poll and put a tweet in its place that s supposed to be a sort of retraction and apology, or as close as Wikileaks will ever get to admitting they royally screwed up.
However, the Internet is keeping the poll and publishing it everywhere they can.
Buzzfeed s Andrew Kaczynski republished a screencap of it while needling Wikileaks about transparency, since that s what Wikileaks was supposed to be about before they turned into conspiracy theorists with a hate-on for Hillary:.
@wikileaks deleted their tweet.
Obviously in the nature of openness & transparency I have preserved it right here: pic.twitter.com/IdrgFlxP3A andrew kaczynski (@BuzzFeedAndrew) September 11, 2016Wikileaks apparently didn t like the flack they were catching for that poll, though, and tweeted out their non-apology accordingly: We removed our earlier poll on what people perceive are the reasons for Clinton s medical issues as the possibilities are too speculative.
WikiLeaks (@wikileaks) September 11, 2016They should know that poll is never going to die, though, and their non-apology is almost as insulting as the poll.
They revel in this kind of thing, along with the backlash involved in fact, they have yet to remove the credit card information of DNC donors from their collection of the hacked emails, despite the outrage over that.Hillary left the 9/11 event she was attending early and appeared to collapse before being helped into a van.
Her campaign later revealed that she d been diagnosed with pneumonia, and that she was overheated and dehydrated, which can happen when someone s sick and in the sun.
Her doctor later said that she was recovering nicely from this episode.Seeing as how a lot of people have completely forgotten, here s a little reminder that this isn t unprecedented: In 2002, George W. Bush passed out in the White House after eating a pretzel.
After eating a pretzel.
Apparently, it went down wrong and stimulated a nerve that decreased his heart rate.
Enough for him to faint.But Hillary momentarily succumbing to an illness while standing in the sun is some sort of scandal.
Right.The medical term for what happened to Bush is vasovagal syncope, and it s actually quite common.
So are run-of-the-mill respiratory infections that lead to pneumonia when left unchecked, even in presidential candidates.
Hillary s schedule has been grueling, to say the least, and yet she s supposed to either be a super woman and never get sick, or admit that even the merest cold means she s too sick to run for President.The haters, however, are looking for any shred of evidence they can find that proves Hillary is unfit to serve.
Wikileaks decided to take it too far.Featured image by Carl Court/Getty Images