Supporting Donald Trump was a senile move too far.Back in the 1970s, conservative Eagle Forum founder Phyllis Schlafly became an enemy to women across the country by leading the charge to defeat the Equal Rights Amendment which would have enshrined gender equality in the Constitution.For decades since, Schlafly has made it her mission to degrade and reduce women to submissive household slaves who have no other duty than to take a husband, be an incubator for fetuses, and leave jobs, politics, and education to the men.All of that should have been enough to make Schlafly a national pariah banished to the extreme fringe of society where she would never be seen or heard from again, but it apparently wasn t.But now it appears her downfall is finally near.Say what you want about Donald Trump, but the one thing he seems to be doing best during this campaign season is splitting the Republican Party and causing political civil war within the conservative ranks.Even among the leadership of the Eagle Forum, Trump has created a divide that has resulted in a power struggle that could at long last rid America of one of the most hated conservative power players.As it turns out, Schlafly s own daughter and several members of the Eagle Forum board who support Ted Cruz are making an effort to oust the 91-year-old because she supports Donald Trump, the St. Louis Post Dispatch reports.
It s disloyal and it s terribly shocking, and I m completely depressed about it, Schlafly whined before a meeting that resulted in the axing of Eagle Forum President Ed Martin, a longtime Phyllis Schlafly minion who believes the hostile takeover is due to Schlafly s endorsement of Trump.
The attendees purported to pass several motions to wrest control of the organization from me, Schlafly claimed.
They are attempting to seize access to our bank accounts, to terminate employees, and to control the bank accounts and all of Eagle Forum.
Gee, you re being treated like shit and think it s unfair?
Congratulations!
You feel the same way that millions of women in this country have felt since you aided in cheating them out of a constitutional amendment that would have mandated equality and fairness.
And it s about time karma came knocking at Schlafly s door to bite her in the ass.Here s the video of Schlafly endorsing Trump in St. Louis last month via YouTube.Donald Trump is an anti-women ignoramus who would be a complete disaster for our country if he were to become president.
But now he can claim to have done at least one good thing for women and our nation as a whole by duping Phyllis Schlafly into supporting him and destroying her own power in the process.
Featured image via YouTube