Mandalay Bay security guard Jesus Campos mysteriously left the country just days after the Las Vegas massacre, a report says.Customs and Border Patrol documents obtained by Fox News show that the 25-year-old entered the United States from Mexico at the San Ysidro border crossing in California one week after the mass shooting.It s unclear how long Campos was out of the country.
The documents only show that he re-entered the US.The young man reportedly crossed the border at the same location in January.While Campos was driving his own vehicle with Nevada plates during that trip, sources told Fox he took a rental car this time around which was registered in California.The new information raises even more questions about Stephen Paddock s Oct. 1 massacre such as why authorities would allow Campos to leave the country in the middle of their investigation or how the security guard managed to make it down to Mexico with a gunshot wound to his leg.But was Campos really a security guard?
According to Nevada law, every security guard in the state of Nevada has to register as an armed or unarmed guard with the state s Private Investigator s Licensing Board (PILB).
This entity s records are publicly searchable at: nevadapilb.glsuite.us.There s no Jesus Campos licensed with the PILB.
Here s a close up look at the NV PI Licensing Board:The document above was released by pol News Infinity who has done some amazing investigative work on a number of cases.
These documents were posted on Reddit:THE ACCOUNT HAS SINCE BEEN SUSPENDEDWatch Tucker Carlson discuss the mystery surrounding security guard Jesus Campos last night on the Tucker Carslon show:Jesus Campos, Las Vegas Security guard & only eye witness, left the country shortly after the shooting took place.
@TuckerCarlson pic.twitter.com/EDJmzDG1yG No One (@tweettruth2me) October 26, 2017Independent investigative journalist Laura Loomer paid a visit to the home of the hero Mandalay Bay Casino and Resort security guard who was allegedly shot by the Las Vegas shooter Steven Paddock.
Loomer can be seen having a conversation with a paid security guard who refused to say who was paying him to stand in front of Campos home.
Who is this guy and why is he there?
The video was taken around the time that Jesus Campos was supposed to be home, it appears now, that he was actually in (his homeland?)
of Mexico.Watch:Investigative Journalist Laura Loomer visits Mandalay Bay "Hero" Security Guard Jesus Campos @ His House @miketokes https://t.co/6L0T6ADzPa Laura Loomer (@LauraLoomer) October 12, 2017Campos reportedly took a bullet from gunman Stephen Paddock at the start of his killing spree.The union that represents him told Fox they were aware of his trip to Mexico and claimed it was a pre-planned visit.
What s unclear, though, is why the group didn t report his whereabouts in the days following the massacre.
NYP