This madness needs to stop and that means Donald Trump should not be president.Trump supporters have been rampaging ever since Election Day.
Emboldened by the results, they have committed hundreds of hate crimes and the number continues to rise.
Nazis and racists are celebrating because they believe Trump will turn America into a whites only nation.And one Trump supporter couldn t have made that any clearer.A San Jose mosque recently received a threatening letter from a Trump supporter promising them that Trump will treat them like Hitler treated the Jews.
As we all know, six million Jews were systematically exterminated during World War II in an effort to wipe them out.
In short, this Trump supporter threatened Muslims with mass genocide.Referring to them as the Children of Satan, the Trump supporter praised Trump and declared that he will cleanse America.
You Muslims are vile and evil people, the letter began before hurling racist insults at their fathers and mothers.
There s a new sheriff in town President Donald Trump.
He s going to cleanse America and make it shine again.
And he s going to start with you Muslims.
He s going to do to you Muslims what Hitler did to the Jews.
You Muslims would be wise to pack your bags and get out of Dodge.
This is a great time for patriotic Americans.
Long live President Trump and God bless the USA.
The Trump supporter didn t even have the balls to use their real name, cowardly signing the letter, Americans for a Better Way.
Here s an image of the letter via Twitter.(2).
@SanJosePD investigating.
Letter: You worship the devil.
But your day of reckoning has arrived .
Calls Muslims vile & filthy people pic.twitter.com/99WGI2giLF Damian Trujillo (@newsdamian) November 26, 2016San Jose police are now investigating but the mosque refuses to let hate win.
We wanted to let law enforcement know so that in case there s an unfortunate event people are prepared, Evergreen Islamic Center Board President Faisal Yazadi told ABC7.
Our doors are never locked.
I hope that person knows that we re more than happy to have a dialogue.
Hopefully, we learn a thing or two from him or her, and he or she learns something from us.
Here s the video via NBC.Donald Trump has done nothing but bring about a rise of hate in this country and he hasn t even taken office yet.
Just imagine how emboldened his supporters will be once that happens.
The Electoral College can stop Trump from being president.
All they have to do is vote for Hillary Clinton on December 19th.
And we can do our part by asking them to do so by signing this petition.
Hate cannot be allowed to win in this country, therefore, we need to make sure Trump loses.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images