Just as drug addicts and alcoholics tend to be in denial of their disease, former reality show star Donald Trump does not think he has a problem.
The alleged president has not addressed opioid addiction which is sweeping across the U.S., and that s probably because he, too, suffers from a type of addiction and remains in denial.
Donald Trump needs treatment, but that would mean he d have to take a leave of absence from his job.The amateur president has spent 31 days of his time in office visiting at least one of his properties, including 19 visits to his golf clubs.
He s been on the job for only 100 days.
In contrast, former President Barack Obama only hit the golf course once during the same amount of time in office.
Obama s first golf game was on April 26th, 2009.Still yet, as addicts do, Trump defended his frequent weekend trips to his luxury resort and properties, saying he does not care about golfing as much as people might think he does, according to The Hill.
I have a lot of property.
So if I go to my clubs like in New Jersey, they ll say, Oh he is going to play golf.
I am not going to play golf, Trump said in an interview on Fox News.
I couldn t care less about golf.
Well, he sure did care when Obama played golf, though.
In fact, there are dozens of rage-tweets from Trump about Obama playing golf.Can you believe that,with all of the problems and difficulties facing the U.S., President Obama spent the day playing golf.Worse than Carter Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 14, 2014 But I have a place there that costs almost nothing because its hundreds of acres and security and they don t have to close up streets, Trump added.What Trump means is that it costs him nothing.
We, the taxpayers, though, are paying big time.
It costs us about $3 million a pop every time he visits his Mar-a-Lago resort.
Meanwhile, every visit to a Trump-owned property promotes it and that means there s a conflict of interest as he profits from the presidency.Trump did say that he feels a little guilty going back to his Trump Tower residence in New York because of all the expenses that are associated with each trip.
But, he didn t mention the costs to taxpayers having to foot the bill for having several White Houses, instead of one.
For example, the security for Melania Trump in New York reportedly costs the city s Police Department between $127,000 and $146,000 a day to protect her and her son.
The Secret Service had to request an additional $60 million in funding to protect Trump and his family.
I love New York, but going back is very expensive for the country because they close up Fifth Avenue and they close up 56th Street and I always feel a little bit guilty when I go there, he said.Trump said he does not want to be perceived as lazy but noted that he prefers to visit his other properties because they are not as expensive to secure.
They are expensive to secure.
Trump s frequent visits to his Florida resort have been a financial burden on the county.
It would be much better if people would understand that I could go other places that I have, Trump said.
But then they hit me for relaxing.
And I don t want to be known as a person that relaxes because I am working hard and I am working hard for the people.
Addiction, whether it be from drugs, alcohol, sex or golfing, is not a prejudiced disease.
It can affect you whether you are black, white, Orange, rich or poor, pay your taxes, or if you try to hide your taxes from the public because you pay nothing at all.Photo by Ian MacNicol/Getty Images.