When Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) announced his plans to resign Thursday, he specifically called out Donald Trump over the Access Hollywood video and Roy Moore, an alleged pedophile who is running for the Senate seat in Alabama with the GOP s blessing.
Donald Trump Jr., not known for being a brainiac, decided to mock Franken on Twitter as if he didn t listen to the Democrat s amazing speech.
Junior invoked one of the former comedian s Saturday Night Live most well-known characters, writing, because I m good enough, I m smart enough, and God-darnit people like me and included the hashtag #Franken.
because I m good enough, I m smart enough, and God-darnit people like me.
#Franken Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) December 7, 2017Twitter gave Junior a wake-up call:pic.twitter.com/NmuRm5MgMz liberalgranny50 (@peppersandeggs) December 7, 2017I am sure daddy @realDonaldTrump can sympathize as he is a fellow sexual predator pic.twitter.com/Qesftp1u28 Matt Slavin (@tHemAttsLavin) December 7, 2017 Grab em by the pussy.
Donald Trump.
Mrs. SMH (@MRSSMH2) December 7, 2017Did you wear a diaper when you tweeted this?
Tony Posnanski (@tonyposnanski) December 7, 2017 And when you re a star, they let you do it.
You can do anything.
Grab em by the pussy.
your dad Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) December 7, 2017Your father is a rapist.
Ask your mom if you don t believe me.Also: you ll be in prison this time next year, traitor.
Greg Olear (@gregolear) December 7, 2017This is coming from Donald I do not recall Trump Jr. Rep. Jackie Sharp (@JackieSharp) December 7, 2017Can t wait to tweet joke about you when you go to prison.
pic.twitter.com/JajOLBYqc6 American Dad (@okiedokiepokey) December 7, 2017pic.twitter.com/zB2kijzXk1 Meghan Morris (@seaghost78) December 7, 2017 I moved on her actually.
You know she was down on Palm Beach.
I moved on her and I failed.
I ll admit it.
I did try and fuck her.
She was married.
Your Dad #Franken #25thAmendmentNow Lesley Abravanel (@lesleyabravanel) December 7, 2017Calm down Fredo, go shoot a sedated animal or something, it s what you re good at.
Motive of Christmas Past (@Falsemotive) December 7, 2017Yes, Jr, your Father (Sexual Predator) such a shining example to your 2 daughters.
Nothing in the world like First Rate P*ssy he said.
cantblameobamaanymor (@DrRev_Mustafa1) December 7, 2017Franken said during his speech, I, of all people, am aware that there is some irony in the fact that I am leaving while a man who has bragged on tape about his history of sexual assault sits in the Oval Office and a man who has repeatedly preyed on young girls campaigns for the Senate with the full support of his party.
Trump and Moore support each other.Photo by Jeff Vinnick/Getty Images