Alleged Bill Clinton sexual victim Juanita Broderick hit back after Chelsea Clinton complained that her parents were always being attacked and is some sort of tradition.
Her parents being attacked is a tradition?
What about your father s victims of sexual assault?
Is that some sort of tradition?Following the debate, Trump told the press that he was holding back on bringing up Bill Clinton s sexual predator history out of respect for Chelsea being in the audience.Chelsea, who apparently is okay with her father receiving oral sex in the Oval Office, and her mother berating and threatening his alleged sexual abuse victims, had this to say about Trump: It s a distraction from his inability to talk about what s actually at stake in this election and to offer concrete, comprehensive proposals about the economy, or our public school system, or debt-free college, or keeping our country safe and Americans safe here at home and around the world.
And candidly, I don t remember a time in my life when my parents and my family weren t being attacked, and so it just sort of seems to be in that tradition, unfortunately.
Juanita Broderick hit back after Chelsea s disgusting flippant attitude about a woman who claims (one of many who have bravely come forward to expose Bill Clinton after being sexually assaulted by him) she was raped by her father:1.
Here is my response to Chelsea Clinton's statement about her father's sexual misdeeds Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 28, 20162.
Chelsea you said you don't remember a time in your life that your parents weren't being attacked.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 28, 20163.
There's a very good reason for this your parents are not good people.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 28, 20164 your father was, and probably still is, a sexual predator.
Your mother has always lied and covered up for him.
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 28, 20165.
I say again "I was 35 when Bill Clinton Raped me and Hillary tried to silence me.
I am now 73.
It never goes away".
Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 28, 2016Here s the vile way people who are supporting the FEMALE candidate for President responded:Another foul mouth.
And he's from Canada.
pic.twitter.com/NmnJIIFcMz Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 30, 2016And this one wants me beaten pic.twitter.com/rCKPUyuROz Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 30, 2016Now this idiot is saying I have been in prison.
pic.twitter.com/yMhKb1i1kb Juanita Broaddrick (@atensnut) September 30, 2016