Donald Trump has had what is arguably the most bizarre week in the history of the American presidency.
He has careened from outrage to outrage, lie to lie, and lawless action to lawless action all in the span of five days, starting with his firing of FBI Director James Comey because he threw a massive tantrum over the Trump-Russia collusion investigation.
Well, there is one respected American who has had about enough of Trump s acting as if he is above the law: journalist Dan Rather.Rather took to his Facebook page to rip Trump to shreds as only he can.
He begins by talking about how long he s lived and how many presidencies he s lived through including Richard Nixon s and then moves on to the extraordinary disgrace that is the Donald Trump presidency.
Rather says, in part:But I have never seen a week where a president of our nation has behaved with such a cavalier disregard for the norms and institutions of our democracy.
And it now seems like the investigation is expanding into Trump s business dealings.
The comparisons with Richard Nixon are plentiful these days, but even he did not seem so untethered from our basic governance.
And I have never seen so many members of a political party rally around incompetence, intemperance, and inanity.Dan Rather is correct.
Donald Trump makes Richard Nixon look like a boy scout.
Trump is downright dangerous, and he must be restrained.
If only the Congress would do their jobs and speak out, and act as the check on this president that they are supposed to be.
Hell, they were more than happy to be a check on President Obama and he didn t even do anything that was lawless.This is the Republican Party putting partisan politics and their own political futures above the good of the republic.
It is shameful, and that is why we must vote them out of Congress in 2018.Mr.
Rather, thank you for speaking truth to power.
We need voices like yours in these dark and dire times.Read the entire brilliant post below:Featured image via Kirk Irwin/Getty Images for SiriusXM