At this point in the election, Republican front runner Donald Trump has said enough stupid, offensive, hateful and dishonest things for us to form a highly negative opinion of not only the candidate, but his loyal supporters, staff and voters.Anyone who could wholeheartedly stand behind Trump and there are unfortunately a lot of conservatives who can is a threat to the future of the country.
While that s pretty scary, there s something that might be even creepier: if one of Trump s minions wants to volunteer for Trump s campaign phone bank, they re required to sign a six-page binding contract that says they will never insult Trump (or his family members, businesses or campaign) for the rest of their lives!
Should they use their constitutional rights to speak poorly against him, Trump will sue.Given how sensitive Trump is to insults nowadays (remember the fuss he made when former rival Marco Rubio insulted his hands?
), it s not really shocking that Trump would make volunteers sign a loyalty oath.
That, and the fact that Trump is absolutely egotistical and power-hungry.Last week, NBC reported that Trump was actually forcing campaign volunteers to sign contracts before they could begin helping him get elected after a strange email came to light.
NBC said: In a Thursday email inviting supporters for phone-banking at Trump Tower, the campaign tells supporters to attend a briefing and then sign your NDA before volunteering begins.
Here s a screenshot of that email:Via NBCA few days ago, The Daily Dot was able to obtain one of these free speech violating contracts.
And yes, the contents are just as ludicrous as they sound: Promise and agree not to demean or disparage publicly the Company, Mr. Trump, any Trump Company, any Family Member, or any Family Member Company or any asset any of the foregoing own, or product or service any of the foregoing offer, in each case by or in any of the Restricted Means and Contexts and to prevent your employees from doing so.
Part of Trump s contract, via Daily DotAlso in the contract are guidelines that volunteers are basically legally bound to Trump they re prohibited to volunteer for any other presidential candidate, should they suddenly become sane and change their minds.
There s no end date to these contracts, so Trump is pretty much making these people sign their lives away to him.
Talk about making a deal with the devil The Daily Dot dug deeper and asked Davida Perry, an employment lawyer in New York City, if these contracts would actually be respected in court.
Perry said that they wouldn t, and added: I guess [Trump] doesn t know about the First Amendment.
This is really shocking.
He s apparently so afraid that people would say something bad about him after spending some time on his campaign that they have to sign some sort of agreement.
I don t see how this stands up.
I don t see how a court enforces this.
Well, Trump actually knows tons about free speech, but only acknowledges those rights when it will benefit him.
Previously, Trump has threatened to sue the media for using their First Amendment rights to run unfavorable news against him.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore