Iiiiiitttt ssssssss a wonderful day in the (White) neighborhood.
It s a wonderful day in the (White) neighborhood.
Won t you be my (White) neighbor?Donald Trump came to South Carolina and summoned the darkness at the heart of conservative politics like the Pied Piper incarnate.
No amount of Bible-thumping, gun-toting or terrorist fear-mongering could draw the crowds away.
They wanted one thing and one thing only: Someone to tell them that not only was their hate of Those People permissible, it was proper and necessary to make America great again.
With 99 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Trump had won 32 percent of the vote and led his nearest rivals by about 10 percentage points.
He was likely to capture all 50 delegates at stake in the state.
Mr. Trump s victory here was not as sweeping as the one in New Hampshire, and there were warning signs as he showed weakness among women and younger voters.
But he still won among both independents and Republicans, and among self-described evangelical Christians.
He also seemed to have built a coalition that will remain with him through adversity: More than half of voters who made their decisions over a month ago picked Mr. Trump, exit polls showed.That is exciting news!
Trump simply has no chance in the general election where his obnoxious racism would turn off much of the country and his general incompetence would lead many conservative voters to not vote.
But more importantly, as I ve said many times, Trump has destroyed the illusion that the right wing cares about religion, morals or fetuses.
They care about hating Those People and maintaining white supremacy.
It s been their motivation for much of this country s history and that s why Trump is their man.Once Rubio or Cruz drop out of the race, the other might consolidate the remaining voters and pass Trump but there s little reason for either of them to do so.
Cruz is in it for himself and Rubio is the pick of the Establishment.
Trump, of course, is running on pure ego at this point.
If this dynamic continues, all signs point to Trump as the nominee and that s the best news possible for Sanders and Clinton.Featured via AI archives