True to form, Trump and his campaign are royally pissed at Newsweek and Kurt Eichenwald for their report on one of Trump s companies that violated the Cuban embargo.
Trump let loose a bunch of unrelated attacks, but the campaign s official response wasn t much of a response.
That is, until Kellyanne Conway opened her mouth on The View.When the ladies of The View asked Conway about the Cuba story, she first said: Read the entire story.
It starts out with a screaming headline, as it usually does, that he did business in Cuba.
And then it turns out he decided not to invest there.
But Trump Hotels & Casinos did spend $68,000 there, which violated the embargo.
Conway either doesn t know what all the embargo banned, or she has no idea how to stick to her defense of her lord and savior.
When the ladies of The View pressed her further, she said: I think they paid money, as I understand from the story, they paid money in 1998.
And then, of course, she launched into a totally irrelevant diatribe about Hillary Clinton.But we digress.Whether it was 1998 or just before Obama lifted certain restrictions, Trump s hotel company illegally spent money in Cuba while he was chairman and still had a controlling interest.
End of story.And that s concerning, as is the law and order candidate s denial that he ever breaks the law.
In fact, Marco Rubio, who has endorsed Trump, is unhappy with Eichenwald s findings: This is something they re going to have to give a response to.
I mean, it was a violation of American law, if that s how it happened, [Rubio] said on the ESPN/ABC Capital Games podcast.
I hope the Trump campaign is going to come forward and answer some questions about this.'
This wouldn t be nearly the huge deal it is if he and his campaign would say something like, Yes, this happened, however, it was handled and Mr. Trump and his businesses took the necessary steps to ensure this kind of thing never happened again.
But Kellyanne Conway threw her boss under the bus in trying to deny this ever happened instead.Featured image by Spencer Platt/Getty Images