Because #BlackCopKillersLivesMatter right?Supporters of Tremain Wilbourn, the Memphis ex-con accused of shooting Officer Sean Bolton when he interrupted a drug deal on Saturday night, have started an IndieGoGo campaign to funnel money to him and his family.Wilbourn turned himself in after a two-day manhunt.
I want you to know that one, I m not a cold-blooded killer and two, I am not a coward, he reportedly told Memphis Police Director Toney Armstrong.
The campaign repeats his claims and says that cops are waging terrorism on black communities, and so they have to support ex-cons who kill.The description of the campaign reads in full:This year, police have killed 558 people.
68% of those people were black.
Most of them were unarmed.
Police brutality and terrorism on the black community remains largely unchecked and less than 1% of those police officers who murder black people without cause are charged with murder or manslaughter.Tremaine Wilbourn turned himself in to police on Monday, August 3rd for fatally shooting a police officer during a traffic stop and he wanted to make clear two things: one- he is not a cold-blooded killer, and two- he is not a coward.
While the murderers of Freddie Gray, Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner, 12 year old Tamir Rice, Sandra Bland and countless others are free to enjoy their families and lives, these men are no longer among the living.These barbaric, unjustified murders of black men, women, and children are supported under the rule of law.
We have to step up and support our people like the murderers of these men, women, and children have been supported.
Please donate anything you can to support Tremaine s children and his family during this difficult time for them.So far, the campaign has raised $116 with 12 funders out of its stated $61,000 goal.
We have to support our people, the campaign s founder, PK EI wrote as a comment.
If Darren Wilson can raise enough to put his children through college twice, we should be able to put together this change for Tremaine s family.
We Should Always Support Our Own People, Especially When The Situation Is Grime And Questionable, Or When We Are Completely Within Our Rights.
Because We Are All We have To Support Us, reads another from user thinkanotherway.
The campaign declares that Wilbourn did in fact, shoot Bolton to death.
If nothing else, its adherence to IndieGoGo s community guidelines is questionable: Indiegogo is not a place for hatred, abuse, discrimination, disrespect, profanity, meanness, harassment, or spam, the community guidelines read.
Do no [u]se the Services to promote violence, degradation, subjugation, discrimination or hatred against individuals or groups based on race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.
IndieGoGo did kill an April campaign helping a cop accused of murder: South Carolina police officer Michael Slager, charged for shooting fleeing suspect Walter Scott to death.
Our Trust & Safety team regularly conducts verifications and checks and this campaign did not meet their standards, the company said at the time.Via: Breitbart News