Remember when Chelsea Clinton faced the same scrutiny as the Trump children by the media?
Remember when the media scrutinized her involvement in the crooked Clinton Foundation, or when the media asked her why, after the email from her mother was exposed by Wikileaks that she knew the truth about the Benghazi attack having nothing to do with a video, but didn t tell anyone?
Remember when the media asked her about her former Secretary of State mother and former President Barack Obama lying about the attack that left 4 Americans dead?
Yeah neither do we.
According to a Thursday Wall Street Journal report, Special Counsel Robert Mueller has been using a federal grand jury to assist his investigation into alleged Russian election interference.
The report claims the grand jury has been in operation in Washington, DC for several weeks, although it does not provide a source for this information.
As the article acknowledges, grand jury proceedings are typically sealed and participation is kept secret.The grand jury discussed is a different one from the Alexandria, Virginia one impaneled to investigate former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn earlier this year.The exact targets of Mueller s Russia grand jury were not clear from the Journal s report but Reuters followed up the report with an afternoon tweet claiming subpoenas were issued relating to Donald Trump Jr. s meetings with a Russian attorney last year.
That meeting and the emails relating to it were the topic of wide media focus last month.In an accompanying report, Reuters specified two sources for their claims, indicating those close to the grand jury are breaking the confidence of that body.
Leaking information from a grand jury investigation is often a federal crime.
Under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e)(2)(B), the following people, and more, are sworn to secrecy under threat of criminal contempt of court:(i) a grand juror;(ii) an interpreter;(iii) a court reporter;(iv) an operator of a recording device;(v) a person who transcribes recorded testimony;(vi) an attorney for the governmentThe impaneling of a grand jury alone does not indicate any burden of proof has been met or evidence uncovered regarding collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government or any other matter under Special Counsel Mueller s purview.
Grand juries can be convened effectively at will by an official, like Mueller, with federal prosecutorial power.Grand juries are the means by which federal criminal indictments are issued, but also serve an investigative purpose that is likely an important aim in this case.
Once impaneled, the grand jurors can, typically at the express urging of the prosecutor, issue wide-reaching subpoenas and call before them witnesses.
In turn, the prosecutor can use this testimony and evidence to assemble a case for probable cause and ask the jury to issue an indictment, all without the defense counsel and other protections with which Americans are familiar from a trial setting.
Breitbart