After going to all the trouble of leaving their bunkers that are stocked with toilet paper and bullets, the Bundy militia arrived in Oregon just to be told to go the hell home by the locals.Both the Hammond family who are at the center of this ruckus and local residents alike are critical of the Bundys idiot militia being in their town.
A lawyer for the Hammond family released a statement on the situation saying, Neither Ammon Bundy nor anyone within his group/organization speak for the Hammond Family.
Koin.com reports that even though some locals did march with the protesters, many others felt the out-of-towners should just leave them to deal with their own problems without interfering:While some locals did march with the protesters, others felt it was too much.
Some posted signs to protest the protesters.
I want them to go home, resident Bee Bee Sitz said.
We take care of ourselves.
Another resident, Kainan Jordan, said, I don t think all of these outsiders coming here is necessary.
I think they intimidate the local people.
Source: koin.comOne protest organizer, Pete Santilli, is a right-wing internet radio hack and current resident on the terrorist watch list.
Santilli doesn t even appear to be a resident of the state of Oregon.
His website shows that he broadcasts his internet radio show from Ohio.
The Bundy boys are not residents of Oregon, either.
This entire operation seems to be an uninvited patriot telethon requesting donations so the masterminds of this fiasco can play soldier instead of getting a real job.People can t even send their children to school because they are closed all week due to the militia presence.
It took only two days for these so-called patriots to cause negative effects on the town they are supposedly there to improve.MILITIA UPDATE: The local school district in Burns announced it will keep schools closed all week because of the militia situation.
Les Zaitz (@LesZaitz) January 3, 2016The irony of the situation is that the militia has become the very thing they claim the federal government to be an outside non-authoritative entity trying to force their own rules onto how the local people deal with their land.Featured image via Twitter