When news of the death of former First Lady Nancy Reagan came through on Sunday, the majority of liberals and conservatives put aside their differences to send condolences to the family and reflect on her contribution to the nation.
But for one conservative commentator, it was the perfect opportunity to attack First Lady Michelle Obama.Conservative blogger and trollumnist Debbie Schlussel struck out on Twitter on Sunday with this pathetic assault on the First Lady.Nancy Reagan brought style & glamour back to the White House & Then Michelle Hussein Obama Took It Away.
RIP #tcot #gop #NancyReagan Debbie Schlussel (@DebbieSchlussel) March 6, 2016Schlussel is a what one might refer to as an ultra-Zionist, a hardliner on Israel who sees no issue with the collective imprisonment and punishment of non-Jews in Israel-Palestine in order to create Jewish Supremacist Apartheid state.
To argue on behalf of human rights, democracy and pluralism of race and faith in Israel, is to Schlussel, an anti-Semitic attack.As an example of just how far Schlussel is willing to go to pursue that agenda, check out her response to the murder of American hostage Kayla Mueller by ISIS last year.
In a blog post entitled Dead ISIS Hostage Was Jew-Hating, Anti-Israel Bitch, she wrote that Mueller was:a Jew-hating, anti-Israel piece of crap So, it s poetic justice that Mueller spent her last months as a hostage of the Islamic terrorists with whom she thought she had some sort of kinship and sisterhood.
And that she died in their hands.She concludes her piece with the sentence:Buh-bye, Kayla.
Have fun with your 72 Yasser Arafats.What evidence was there that Mueller was jew-hating ?
The aid worker s list of previous humanitarian efforts included escorting Palestinian children to school in Hebron in the occupied West Bank, to protect them from violent Jewish-Israeli settlers.
The video below is an example of the sort of violence from which the school children need protecting.
Schlussel s attacks on the First Lady and the President are based not on the fact that they are black, but on the presumption that they are Muslim, and that by virtue of being Muslim, they are evil, anti-Semitic and dangerous.Unfortunately for Schlussel, Twitter users were not up for drinking her particular brand of Kool Aid.
One person summed it up quite neatly @DebbieSchlussel I bet Mrs. Reagan is spitting on your head from Heaven.
AAmom (@AVD911) March 6, 2016And another @DebbieSchlussel you're actually racist scum dmbrandon!!
(@juiceDiem) March 6, 2016While this person made a rather helpful suggestion.
@DebbieSchlussel let some light into your hateful heart Chuck Daly (@ChuckDaly) March 6, 2016Former Will and Grace star Debra Messing drew attention to Schlussel s tweet, condemning it openly.Shame on you https://t.co/GPNI7EbqBs Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) March 6, 2016So Schlussel spent the rest of Sunday hate-tweeting Messing (getting no response) for the crime of speaking out against racism.
Stay classy Schlussel.
Featured image via Flickr