Just a day before the Iowa caucuses, a former field organizer for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has come forward with accusations that Trump s campaign grossly discriminated against women, paying them less than the male employees doing the same exact work.These completely believable accusations were made by Elizabeth Mae Davidson and published by The New York Times.
The 26-year-old staffer had been working for Trump s campaign in Davenport, Iowa but was fired a month ago despite being previously described as one of the campaign s most effective organizers.On Thursday, Davidson filed a complaint about the discrimination with the Davenport Civil Rights Commission.
Aside from the gender pay discrimination, Davidson reported that she was also given less opportunities to advance her career and skills.
To make matters worse, female staffers were also subjected to inappropriate comments about their appearance from Donald Trump himself.
The Times wrote:[Davidson] said in a discrimination complaint that men doing the same jobs were paid more and were allowed to plan and speak at rallies, while her requests to do so were ignored.
She also said that when she and a young female volunteer met Mr. Trump at a rally last summer, he told them, You guys could do a lot of damage, referring to their looks.In an interview, Davidson revealed that she was paid $2,000 per month.
Because she was also working as a paralegal, she was considered a part-time staffer by the campaign.
However, one of her male peers with the exact same role in the campaign was paid almost double despite the fact that he also has another job!
Trump s campaign public filings state that several men filling the same role as Davidson were being paid between $3,500 to $4,000 a month.According to Dorothy A. O Brien, Davidson s attorney, the complaint will trigger the Davenport civil rights agency to investigate Trump s campaign, and after 60 days Davidson can choose to let the agency continue its investigation or follow suit in state court.Considering Trump s horrible track record of sexist, misogynistic comments toward women, it s not a big surprise to hear that his campaign was discriminating against its female staffers.
When Davidson was asked if she would be attending Monday s caucuses, she was undecided.
She said: Some of the bad things about him I dismissed, because I was working for the candidate.
Now I m more critical, especially how he treats women.
We don t blame her.Featured image via Gage Skidmore