White House counselor Kellyanne Conway is offended because CNN s Anderson Cooper rolled his eyes during an interview with her.
Who are the snowflakes again?
During an interview on Wednesday Conway thought Cooper was being a big ol meanie over Trump s bizarre timing in firing FBI Director James Comey.Cooper had had it with her lies.
He eventually just rolled his eyes and that moment circulated around the Internet and gifs were made.
Conway has, after all, been called out on her lies before.On Thursday, Conway appeared on Fox & Friends and accused Cooper of sexism for rolling his eyes during the interview.
I face sexism a lot of times when I show up for interviews like that, Conway said.Watch:WATCH: @KellyannePolls reacts to Anderson Cooper's eyeroll pic.twitter.com/NUa0EftToi FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) May 11, 2017Cooper played clips of Donald Trump praising Comey, then Conway defended her boss.
Her desperate defense prompted an eye roll from the CNN host.Conway said, You are conflating two things that don t belong together.
Thanks for the trip down memory lane.
I was on your show often last fall, [wink], saying we were going to win Michigan and how we were going to do it, and that s when Cooper rolled his eyes.Conway suggested that she was the victim of an eye roll because she works for a Republican.
Could you imagine having a male anchor on the network roll eyes at Hillary Clinton, at somebody a female representative spokeswoman for President Obama or President Bill Clinton?
I think not, she said.
Hillary Clinton is in search of sexism as a lame excuse for why her disastrous candidacy and campaign lost six months ago, the propagandist added.
I face sexism a lot of times when I show up for interviews like that.
Right, so Hillary never faced sexism during the campaign, according to Ms. Liar Pants.
Trump that Bitch was a favorite slogan with Trump supporters.
Or how about that time Trump tweeted (then deleted) that If Hillary Clinton can t satisfy her husband what makes her think she can satisfy America?
Blaming a woman for her husband s infidelity is sexist, by the way.Image of the Snowflake via screen capture.