Hillary had several chances over the years to treat her Secret Service detail with kindness and respect.
She chose instead, to berate them and treat them like second class citizens.
Her arrogance and mistreatment of those who have been hired to protect her life is now coming back to bite her Good morning, ma am, a member of the uniformed Secret Service once greeted Hillary Clinton.
F off, she replied.That exchange is one among many that active and retired Secret Service agents shared with Ronald Kessler, author of First Family Detail, a compelling look at the intrepid personnel who shield America s presidents and their families and those whom they guard.
When in public, Hillary smiles and acts graciously, Kessler explains.
As soon as the cameras are gone, her angry personality, nastiness, and imperiousness become evident.
He adds: Hillary Clinton can make Richard Nixon look like Mahatma Gandhi.
Hillary s horrible treatment of her Secret Service detail is now coming back to bite her, as agents are eager to tell the truth about her poor health and how they ve been working to keep it a secret for quite some time.It turns out that the Secret Service is the source of leaks on Hillary s rapidly deteriorating health.According to InfoWars reporter Joe Biggs, during the Republican National Convention last June, two Secret Service agents approached InfoWars and asked to speak to them.
Biggs describes what happened, beginning at around the 5:30 mark of the video below: The Secret Service contacted me.
They said that Hillary Clinton has Parkinson s disease.
They [Hillary s people] spent over a quarter million dollars on these stairs to allow her to step down from the vehicle to the ground because she has trouble walking.
They [Secret Service] said that any kind of flashes or strobes will set her off into a seizure, and that s why they wanted to come us.Watch here:They wanted to contact us and give us information because they knew we [InforWars] would be able to get this out.
[Unlike the MSM,] we wouldn t be scared to do it.
And you know it really makes a lot of sense when you watch all these videos.
The fact that she s refusing to do these news conferences.
Hillary had not done a press conference for 8 months.
Her last press conference was on December 4, 2015.
(Washington Post)Watch Hillary here as Clinton embraces the owner of Joe Biden s childhood home on her recent trip to Scranton, PA with one arm, while holding onto the railing on the front walk.
Moments later, she pivoted and grabbed the railing with the other hand.Then she pivoted back, only to reach for the railing again with the other hand.Inside the house, she held onto a chair and moved to lean on the kitchen table.
Click HERE for entire story.At this point, Alex Jones makes the observation that Hillary s campaign rallies seem to have fewer flashes and strobe lights than Trump s rallies.
So Biggs proposes that InfoWars brings cameras with flashes and strobe lights to one of Hillary s rallies and see if they re stopped at the gate and barred from bringing the equipment inside.
DC Clothesline