It seems there s a bit of infighting happening between the Democratic candidates that really isn t called for.
While Hillary Clinton was pressed to say if she thought Bernie Sanders is qualified to be president, she time and time again has said that it s up to the voters to decide, but has never said he s not qualified.
Yet, this seemingly was taken as an attack and Bernie responded in slight, and it kind of goes against his promise to run a clean campaign.Sanders, quite literally said, I don t believe that she is qualified, in regards to Clinton.
He then went on to list reasons he believes she s not qualified, all of which were just positions he just disagrees with her on, but not a means of disqualification.
If anything, Clinton may be the most qualified candidate in modern history, so his remarks were clearly uncalled for.While the internet went into a tizzy slamming Sanders for saying Clinton is unqualified, everyone was waiting for what the Democratic front-runner would say in response.Speaking with reporters Thursday morning, Clinton, being no beginner in receiving uncalled for jabs, shrugged off the attack, saying: Well, it s kind of a silly thing to say.
But I m going to trust the voters of New York who know me and have voted for me three times twice for Senate and once in the presidential primary.
Adding: Look, I don t know why he s saying that, but I will take Bernie Sanders over Donald Trump or Ted Cruz any time, so let s keep our eye on what s really at stake in this election.
Reiterating that as far as New York is concerned, that s up to the voters.
The voters will decide that.
Clinton could have gone negative, but she chose to take the high road and reiterate that if Bernie happens to take the nomination, he s a far better choice than anything the Republicans have to offer.
Something Sanders used to say himself about Hillary.This is what every Democrat voting needs to remember, all this bickering back and forth will amount to nothing if a Republican wins in November.
Both Hillary and Bernie are FAR better options, and that is clear.
Please remember, no matter who, vote blue.Featured Photo by Andrew Renneisen/Getty Images