If a debate is won according to who generates the most buzz, Bernie Sanders has once again kicked Republican ass on twitter.
According The Hill, Sanders had two of the most retweeted tweets during the debate with a pair touting his position in polls and going after GOP front-runner Donald Trump s proposal to ban Muslims from the U.S.
Both got more than 5,000 retweets.
The Republicans seem to think they could beat our campaign.
They haven t seen the polls.
#GOPDebatepic.twitter.com/XitW9T28Vq Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) January 15, 2016I love the little frowning Republican faces; they so perfectly capture the frustration they must be feeling at losing in the polls, badly, to a *GASP* Socialist!
Republicans are, of course, all for socialism but only as long as it s the rich that benefit and not all of the dirty lower classes that Bernie represents.
Privatize the rewards, socialize the cost.
It s the American way.Sanders also hit Trump over his naked appeals to racism and bigotry:I have a message for Donald Trump: No, we re not going to hate Latinos or Muslims.
We are going to stand together.
#GOPDebate Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) January 15, 2016The problem with running on hate is that it only gets you so far.
Once you get past the angry white old person demographic, no one else is interested.But what makes it even more remarkable that Sanders continues to outshine Republicans on twitter during their own debate is that Sanders only has 1.14 million followers compared to Trump s 5.69 million.
Although if we follow Trump s track record, there s a good chance a lot of those are paid for followers.
I have a hard time believing that the average Trump supporter is smart enough to turn on a computer, much less use social media.While Trump did pick up more new followers than Sanders during the debate, that s of little comfort to the Republican Party.
They may fear a Sanders presidency, but they fear a Trump presidency even more.
Sanders will move the country to a place where the rich won t be AS rich and everyone else will get richer.
Trump will turn America into the laughingstock of the world and cost Corporate America far more money than that dastardly Socialist Sanders ever could.Faced with that kind of choice, Republicans may not have a choice but to go all in for Bernie.Featured image via twitter