Hillary Clinton has just launched the first ad directly aimed at Donald Trump s campaign.
The ad is all about New York, in time for the April 19 Democratic primary there, but uses the opportunity to criticize the current Republican frontrunner on his home territory.The 30-second TV spot that will begin airing ahead of the April 19 primary a Clinton spokesman said the timing of the ad launch in the expensive New York media market was still to be determined uses grainy footage from a Trump rally earlier this month were a white supporter sucker-punches an African-American protester.
When some say we can solve America s problems by building walls, banning people based on their religion, and turning against each other, well, this is New York.
And we know better, Clinton says while the camera pans over a sign advertising a new Trump hotel that is coming 2016.
In the ad, Clinton also talks up the diversity of New York, themes that she has used in her campaign and a nod towards the diverse coalition of voters that delivered two presidential terms to President Obama: No, we don t all look the same.
We don t all sound the same, either.
But when we pull together, we do the biggest things in the world.
The ad then cuts to time-lapse footage of the newly built Freedom Tower in downtown Manhattan, which was built on the site of the former World Trade Center.The ad follows a campaign event in Wisconsin where Clinton took on Trump s habit of inciting violence and hate at his rallies.
She noted, What Donald Trump has been doing over these last months is inciting violent behavior, aggressive behavior that I think is very dangerous and has resulted in attacks on people at his events, including this charge that was brought against his campaign manager.
The most recent polling in New York have Clinton ahead of Democratic rival Bernie Sanders by an average of 34.5 percent.
She is currently ahead of Trump nationally by an average of 11.5 percent.
In 2012, President Obama beat Republican nominee Mitt Romney by 28 percent in New York.Featured image via YouTube