The Democratic Party has descended into madness.
Democratic voters are split.
The convention is going to be a disaster.
Bernie Sanders may take his supporters and walk away, thus handing Trump the presidency.These are the headlines the mainstream media has been peddling now for months.
As the omega primary creeps up (with California and New Jersey up for grabs), it s becoming evident that one candidate will walk away the nominee.This, of course, has incensed members of the opposite candidate and naturally so.
And of course the media has pounced on these feelings, and has ran nonstop coverage in an effort to tear the party apart.No matter how loud the pundits scream, and no matter how blistering the op-eds are, don t buy into the hype.
Because there is one truth that the media doesn t want to report on:The Democratic Party is more united now than it was in 2008 and Obama won in a landslide.
The one outlet that seems to have the guts to report on it is Vox, not surprisingly.In fact, what the mainstream media doesn t want to remind you is that in May 2008, 15 percent of Democrats overall said they wouldn t vote for Obama.
Today, May 2016, only 6 percent of Democrats say they won t support Clinton.When Clinton dropped out in 2008, 40 percent of her supporters said they would not vote for then-candidate Barack Obama.
Today, as it becomes increasingly likelier than Clinton will become the nominee, only 25 percent of Sanders supporters claim they will not support her candidacy should she win (a number that is shrinking).As Vox puts it, Obama needed, in other words, to overcome a hurdle that was twice as big as the one facing Clinton.
And they also noted:Last but by no means least, McCain was a broadly popular figure with considerable cross-party appeal.
He wound up losing pretty badly in the end due to a very unfavorable economic situation and a campaign that saw him abandoning most of his crossover positions.
But as of late May it really wasn t totally crazy to imagine a hawkish, domestically moderate white Democrat feeling that he had a lot in common with McCain, especially if there was a little covert racial bias in the mix.And for Democrats freaking out over Trump overcoming Clinton in a handful of polls, at this time in 2008 and 2012, McCain and Romney respectively overtook President Obama in the polls multiple times.The explanation for that is, presently, the Republican Party is more united now than the Democrats, considering they have one candidate while the Democrats have two still running.Bottom line: Democrats are smarter than the media conglomerates think, and they see firsthand the risk of a Trump presidency.
They aren t going to blow it.Featured image via Joe Readle/Getty Images