Sean Hannity is definitely going to blow a gasket about this.In recent weeks, major mainstream media outlets have been slamming the Fox News host for pushing lie after lie after lie in his effort to get Donald Trump elected in November.First, Jon Stewart came out of retirement for one night to slam Hannity so hard for being a hypocrite when it comes to the way he has treated Trump versus the shitty way he has treated President Obama that the conservative host could hardly stammer his way through an angry response to the comedian the next day.And then Hannity threw a hissy fit after Wall Street Journal foreign affairs columnist Bret Stephens called him Fox News dumbest anchor for attacking Republican leaders for not blindly supporting Trump no matter what he does.Then CNN host Brian Stelter took Hannity to the woodshed for helping Trump claim that the election is rigged for Hillary Clinton.And if that weren t enough, the Washington Post also dealt Hannity a major rebuke for lying about Trump rescuing stranded Marines after the Gulf War came to a close.Now Hannity just got his ass handed to him by Newsweek over his constant stream of lies and the fact that he insulted people with epilepsy by questioning Hillary Clinton s health.Kurt Eichenwald absolutely destroyed Hannity in a published column and it s clear that he just smacked Hannity in the face with a gauntlet.
HARD.A man who purports to be a dutiful Catholic, Hannity has made a career out of violating the ninth commandment (or eighth in his faith) against lying about others.
If Hannity stopped vomiting up falsehoods, his program would be nothing but a test pattern.
From him and the others in the Who cares if it s false?
conservative media camp, we have heard over the decades that Hillary and Bill Clinton murdered many people, that the Bush administration found weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, that Obama could be on the verge of declaring martial law, and on and on.They are pretend journalists pumping out propaganda to scared, foolish people.Eichenwald then took Hannity to task for telling his audience that Hillary may have had a seizure in a video which shows Clinton Being pulled in different directions by multiple speakers at once, Clinton playfully acted like a bobblehead doll, smiling and then speaking after the joke was over.
But Hannity characterized Clinton s playfulness as a serious medical condition, which Eichenwald did NOT appreciate.I know this response to Sean Hannity is a little raw, but as someone with epilepsy, I hope my editors will let this slip through: Fuck you, Sean.
Your willingness to deceive your viewers to degrade those of us with epilepsy, to suggest something is a seizure when it looks nothing like one, to leave people dumber about this condition is unforgivable.It is rare for a mainstream journalist to use such strong language, but Hannity certainly deserved it.
And that was only the beginning.Eichenwald went on to talk about what a real seizure is, explaining: People do not smile during a seizure while standing upright and then immediately launch into a coherent sentence.
There s no smiling because, if for some reason the person experiencing the seizure has not collapsed to the ground in unconsciousness, the moment the body begins to move uncontrollably is terrifying.
After a seizure, someone does not instantly jump back into a conversation, making jokes.
Eichenwald then delivered the final blow.While I know you almost never apologize for anything you do on the air, this sin requires some penance.
It can be done in secret if you don t have the character to make a public pronouncement of regret.
Write a check.
Make a donation to help those you demeaned and damaged if you are unable to show the backbone to undo the damage you have done, you can understand why I say you purport to be a Catholic.
If you really were one, you d be worried about burning in hell for what you ve done.Thus far, Sean Hannity has not responded nor has he thrown a temper tantrum over Eichenwald basically putting him over his knee and giving his an ass-whipping.
But you can bet one will probably happen soon as Hannity has a thin skin just like Donald Trump.Featured Image: Screenshot