The Stupid Part of America is riled up again after Maryland made a small change to its state song.
To make it a bit more modern, the state Senate voted 37-8 to both officially reaffirm Maryland, Oh Maryland as the official state song, and to remove the words Northern scum so that citizens of the state can finally sing it without feeling a stinging sense of shame.
Maryland, Oh Maryland was penned in 1861 and adopted as the state song in 1939.
Talking Points Memo notes that it is unclear why the song was adopted at that particular historical moment but notes there had been two recent lynchings in the state and the NAACP was then advocating for equal pay for black teachers.
In other words, it probably was not selected because people enjoy singing to the tune of O Tannenbaum.
By enshrining a Confederate war anthem, the General Assembly may have been seeking symbolically to challenge such efforts, the AP notes.The song is pretty inflammatory.
Currently, it ends with a rousing call to fight against those dirty northerners who wanted to end slavery: She is not dead, nor deaf, nor dumb Huzza!
She spurns the Northern scum!
She breathes!
She burns!
She ll come!
She ll come!
Maryland!
My Maryland!
The song refers to President Abraham Lincoln as a despot and urges Marylanders to burst the tyrant s chains.
The changes keep one verse from the old lyrics and add one from an 1894 poem describing the natural beauty of the state of Maryland something more appropriate in modern times than complaints about Lincoln and calls for an armed uprising.
They keep the historic song.
It s still there, but this bill is an excellent compromise to move forward, so that our children and our children s children and so that all Maryland can be proud of our state song, said Senate President Thomas V. Mike Miller (D).
At the present time, all of Maryland cannot be proud of our state song, and so that s the reason I m voting green.
Changing the song is a completely reasonable action, given its inflammatory speech so naturally, Fox News fans became rather incensed when they learned about what they view on an assault on their heritage (whether they are from Maryland or not).
Some complained about rap music for some reason, while others threatened to take up arms against the government.
Others whined about black people, some said that this is a form of white genocide (the systemic elimination of the white race that Donald Trump s supporters in the KKK believe is happening), and others still hold out hope that the South will rise again.
And, of course, there were the customary calls for President Obama s death that accompany literally everything that happens in the world: Unfortunately, this is where we re at as a nation and Donald Trump s rhetoric has given these people, who would normally keep their shameful and idiotic opinions to themselves and their local Klavern, the courage to speak out.
Whenever someone tells you that Republicans aren t racist, we d tell you to show them this, but we all know they will simply claim that the hundreds of similar comments are left by liberal plants who want to destroy America no matter how much evidence exists that this attitude is no longer the minority in the Rapublican Party.The bill is set to go to the House, where it is expected to pass a good thing for the state of Maryland, but something that will likely cause at least a few acts of violence against African-Americans.
It s just what conservatives do these days.Maybe next, legislators can hop on board the effort to change the name of Negro Mountain or at least take down the numerous highways signs and remove the picnic area.Featured image via screengrab