Appearing on CBS This Morning, Republican vice presidential nominee Mike Pence was left floundering for responses to questions he clearly did not want to be asked.For one, he was asked to respond to Michelle Obama s remarks surrounding his running-mate Donald Trump being a sexual predator.Yesterday, while speaking at a Clinton campaign event in New Hampshire, the First Lady stated: This is not something that we can ignore.
It s not something we can just sweep under the rug as just another disturbing footnote in a sad election season.
Because this was not just a lewd conversation; this wasn t just locker room banter.
This was a powerful individual speaking freely and openly about sexually predatory behavior and actually bragging about kissing and groping women using language so obscene that many of us worried about our children hearing it when we turn on the TV.
And to make matters worse, it now seems very clear that this isn t an isolated incident it s one of countless examples of how he has treated women his whole life.
She added: Too many are treating this as just another day s headline.
As if our outrage is overblown or unwarranted.
As if this is normal.
Be clear: this is not normal.
This is not politics as usual.
This is disgraceful.
It is intolerable.
And it doesn t matter what party you belong to: Democrat, Independent, Republican no woman deserves to be treated this way.
None of us deserves this kind of abuse This isn t about politics, it s about basic human decency.
This Morning Co-host Norah O Donnell asked Pence about these remarks, but Pence decided to respond with this: Look I have a lot of respect for the First Lady But I don t understand the basis of her claim.
Someone flabbergasted that Pence was seemingly saying that Michelle Obama went too far, O Donnell followed up with: You don t believe his language was sexually predatory?
He was then left to put together words, in no particular order, that tried to defend Trump and his actions.
Keep in mind Pence condemned Trump s remarks that came out of the leaked Access Hollywood tape, but now he doesn t seem to believe any of the victims coming forward that state Trump did exactly what he stated on that leaked tape.Someone should let him know he can t talk out of both sides of his mouth on this issue.
Someone else should let him know that you don t halfass insult First Lady Michelle Obama and think he can get away with it.Pence then pivoted fast away from the questions that left him flat on his face.If Pence wasn t such a jerk himself, you could almost feel bad for the guy for needing to defend his sexual predator running-mate, but this is might just be sweet karma for all the sh*tty things Pence has done legislatively to women and the LGBT community over the years.Watch the video here:Mike Pence is so pathetic.
#PatheticPence pic.twitter.com/iJ4rKyCp3P Sarah Wood (@SarahWoodwriter) October 14, 2016Featured image via video screen capture