Newt Gingrich must really be regretting his little temper tantrum on Megyn Kelly s show now.Because his tirade about Kelly being more fascinated with sex than policy really has backfired spectacularly in the last 24 hours, culminating in a brutal takedown on CNN.All Megyn Kelly did was correctly point out that Donald Trump is possibly a sexual predator, which caused Gingrich to explode in rage and be completely disrespectful towards Kelly.Anderson Cooper and his panel discussed the former House Speaker s hissy fit on CNN on Wednesday night, and it didn t take long for Gingrich to be slammed for being a total hypocrite because of his past sexual misconduct.Cooper fired the first shot by calling it ironic that Gingrich would call Kelly fascinated by sex when he cheated on his first two wives, including an affair that took place during the impeachment proceedings against Bill Clinton.
For Newt Gingrich to accuse Megyn Kelly of being fascinated by sex, Cooper said after turning to Trump supporter Scottie Nell Hughes for a response.
This is a guy, who s what, on his third marriage, cheated on his first two wives and was having an affair when he was impeaching Bill Clinton.
Isn t that right?
Hughes used the glass houses defense and tried to turn the discussion into one about Hillary Clinton.Needless to say, Hughes and fellow Trump supporter Kayleigh McEnany humiliated themselves by trying to defend Gingrich s offensive outburst.But GOP consultant Ana Navarro had no problem blasting Gingrich, and she corrected Cooper before proceeding to rip Gingrich a new one.
I think the word you were looking for was hypocritical.
Remember Newt Gingrich s wife?
When he was running in 2012, told all of us, told the media, said it to the camera.
Newt Gingrich offered her the choice between an open marriage or a divorce.
So maybe, just maybe, if all of that baggage is on your shoulders, maybe you shouldn t be the surrogate out there wagging your finger and accusing the woman who was reporting on sexual assault let me explain it slowly sexual assault and sex are two things.
One is unwanted.
One is wanted.
So maybe they need to understand that to begin with.
Let us not confuse sexual assault and sex.
And if you are going to get a surrogate to speak on it, and wag his finger on national TV, maybe, just maybe, go find the Pope or somebody that s been on his knees in a chapel for the last 20 years.
Not Newt Gingrich.
Here s the video via YouTube.Gingrich should publicly apologize to Megyn Kelly for his behavior on Tuesday night.
It was unacceptable and only demonstrated precisely why Trump is getting hammered at the polls by women right now.
Scottie Nell Hughes should tell Gingrich all about glass houses next time she sees him because he certainly could have used that advice before making a jackass out of himself.
Or better yet, Gingrich should just keep his mouth shut and disappear from the political landscape entirely.Featured Image: Screenshot