Would CNN even know the truth if it bit them in the a**?The media s quest to prove Donald Trump Jr. colluded with Wikileaks is all wrong.The Sept. 14 email to Trump campaign advertising WikiLeaks emails promoted publicly available info, was riddled with typos and came from a Trump backer who had given $40 to the campaign months earlier, per email viewed by @WSJ.
Rebecca Ballhaus (@rebeccaballhaus) December 8, 2017Legal Insurrection CNN originally reported an email from Trump Jr. was sent 10 days later, a factual inaccuracy that led to a false timeline and essentially, fake news.
The timeline is crucial because it proves Trump Jr. was not trading unknown information, but that someone was alerting him to information already made public.
Despite claims to the contrary, Trump Jr. was not aware (as far as records prove) ofCNN has published a CORRECTION and updated this story.
Originally CNN said the email was dated Sept. 4, based on "accounts from two sources who had seen the email."
CNN now has a copy of the email, and it's dated Sept. 14, not Sept. 4. https://t.co/EpvrB43jyU Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) December 8, 2017From CNN s report, which has been updated to reflect the WaPos findings:Candidate Donald Trump, his son Donald Trump Jr. and others in the Trump Organization received an email in September 2016 offering a decryption key and website address for hacked WikiLeaks documents, according to an email provided to congressional investigators.The September 14 email was sent during the final stretch of the 2016 presidential race.CNN originally reported the email was released September 4 10 days earlier based on accounts from two sources who had seen the email.
The new details appear to show that the sender was relying on publicly available information.
The new information indicates that the communication is less significant than CNN initially reported.After this story was published, The Washington Post obtained a copy of the email Friday afternoon and reported that the email urged Trump and his campaign to download archives that WikiLeaks had made public a day earlier.
The story suggested that the individual may simply have been trying to flag the campaign to already public documents.CNN has now obtained a copy of the email, which lists September 14 as the date sent and contains a decryption key that matches what WikiLeaks had tweeted out the day before.After obtaining the emails, the WaPo corrected the record:A 2016 email sent to President Trump and top aides pointed the campaign to hacked documents from the Democratic National Committee that had already been made public by the group WikiLeaks a day earlier.The email sent the afternoon of Sept. 14, 2016 noted that Wikileaks has uploaded another (huge 678 mb) archive of files from the DNC and included a link and a decryption key, according to a copy obtained by The Washington Post.The writer, who said his name was Michael J. Erickson and described himself as the president of an aviation management company, sent the message to the then-Republican nominee as well as his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and other top advisers.Legal Insurrection tweeted about CNN s latest VeryFakeNews story:Washington Post proving that CNN scoop was fake news.
Happy Friday!
https://t.co/GHfZdRf9Zv Legal Insurrection (@LegInsurrection) December 8, 2017