Republicans are literally using every excuse they can come up with to avoid investigating Donald Trump.After years of frivolously investigating Hillary Clinton and President Obama, Republicans are refusing to investigate Trump over his various ties to Russia, which includes Russia interfering in our election process on his behalf and Michael Flynn illegally negotiating with Russian officials about the sanctions put in place by President Obama and lying to Mike Pence about it.Republicans have claimed that investigating Trump would be a waste of time and money, conveniently ignoring the fact that they wasted millions and spent years investigating Benghazi, an investigation that surpassed the 9/11 and Watergate investigations as the longest in American history.
And that effort turned up nothing.However, Republicans know that if they investigate Trump they will end up actually finding evidence that would warrant immediate impeachment, and they don t want to lose their rubber stamp in the White House and piss off conservative voters in the process.House Intelligence Chairman GOP Rep. Devin Nunes is even going so far as to claim that such an investigation would be a witch hunt similar to McCarthyism.
This is almost like McCarthyism revisited, Nunes said at a Republican convention in California.
We re going to go on a witch hunt against, against innocent Americans.
You read that right.
Nunes actually just claimed that Trump and his accomplices are totally innocent even though the evidence is stacking up.According to Nunes, the intelligence community has no evidence of Trump and his administration doing anything suspicious.
At this point there s nothing there, Nunes continued.
Once we begin to look at all the evidence, and if we find any American that had any contact with Russian agents or anybody affiliated with the Russian government, then we ll be glad to, at that point, you know, subpoena those people before the House and let the legislative branch do its oversight and then we would recommend it over to, you know, the appropriate people.
Of course, that s complete bullshit.
Not only did the intelligence community agree that Russia interfered with the election, Michael Flynn was forced to resign for being in contact with Russian officials prior to Trump taking office.
Also, Trump and his team are trying really hard to kill any talk of an investigation, even desperately asking the FBI to shut it down.Trump s business has ties to Russian oligarchs who are close to Vladimir Putin.
Trump s taxes would probably show his ties to Russia but he refuses to release them because they would incriminate him.Russia has literally been a scandal for Trump since before Election Day and it has only continued to get bigger since he took office last month.But Nunes is ignoring all of that, claiming that an investigation against Trump would be against the American people.
He also subscribed to Trump s claim that the media is fake news.
At this point, we can t go on a witch hunt against the American people, any American people who have not had any contact just because they appeared in a news story, Nunes concluded.Again, this is outrageously absurd.
The only reason Republicans don t want to investigate Trump is because they don t want to investigate one of their own.
If Trump were a Democrat, Republicans would have impeached him on day one.
It is the duty of Congress to investigate Trump s Russia scandal.
That s not McCarthyism because Joe McCarthy accused hundreds of people of being communists without any proof whatsoever.
There is a lot of proof that Trump is in bed with the Russians.
But Republicans are hypocrites and that s why they should all be thrown out of office in 2018 so that Democrats can take over Congress and impeach Trump and his entire administration.Featued image via Andrew Harrer Pool/Getty Images