Jeb Bush has raised well over $120 million with his utterly disastrous presidential campaign, successfully proving that money doesn t always buy support.
On the upside, a lot of really wealthy conservatives pumped millions of dollars into a trainwreck campaign money they ll never, ever see again.Currently, Jeb Bush is polling at four percent in Iowa, according to Nate Silver, and eight percent in New Hampshire.Knowing so much money is at stake, and that his campaign is perhaps the most pathetic effort on the GOP side, it s no wonder he resorted to a completely tasteless new commercial in which he exploits the image of Terri Schiavo to emphasize his pro-life record.TPM:Shiavo s husband, Michael, called the ad disgusting in a statement to the Tampa Bay Tribune.
It is simply disgusting that Jeb Bush and his super Pac would exploit my wife s tragedy for his crude political gain, Michael Schiavo said in the statement.
Shame on Jeb Bush.
What the campaign video shows is that if he ever got his hands on the power of government again, he would do the same thing again, maybe next time to your family, the statement continued.In case you don t know, Schiavo was a Florida resident who, due to a heart attack, lapsed into an irreversible persistent vegetative state.
Her parents wanted to continue to keep her alive, while her husband vigorously pursued her wishes to die with dignity.
When the story hit the news, the GOP scrambled to diagnose Schiavo from afar, turning her into a source of pro-life demagoguery.So, as if Schiavo and her husband weren t humiliated enough by Republicans, Jeb Bush chose to resurrect his party s shameless exploitation of a family caught in one of life s most harrowing episodes.
All for the purpose of desperately trying to lift his failing campaign.
The fact that it won t work illustrates how pointless it is.The only thing more disgraceful was the time Republicans used images of 9/11, including victims leaping from the World Trade Center to their deaths.
[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9u-f9-wfs6c&w=420&h=315]Featured image via video screen grab.