Donald Trump s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski was arrested on Tuesday morning in Jupiter, Florida.
Lewandowski has been charged with misdemeanor battery.Corey Lewandowski, Donald Trump campaign manager, was charged this morning with misdemeanor battery after allegations of forcefully grabbing a reporter at a Jupiter news conference, town police confirmed this morning.Following a March 8 conference at Trump National Golf Club, Michelle Fields, a 28-year-old reporter formerly with the online Breitbart News Network, said she was grabbed on the arm by Lewandowski, 41, after she asked Trump a question about affirmative action.The police report says that surveillance footage backs up the claim that Lewandowski put his hands on Fields, and Jupiter police released the video:Reporter Lulu Ramadan posted an image of the arrest report:.
@bmaz @WesleyLowery note the highlighted "date of arrest" and "time of arrest" Call it what you want.
It happened.
pic.twitter.com/Lo3o6qyXcj Lulu Ramadan (@luluramadan) March 29, 2016Despite the video evidence, Trump s campaign issued a release claiming that their staffer is completely innocent.
Trump campaign released statement on Corey Lewandowski battery arrest: He's "absolutely innocent" pic.twitter.com/DiWw5I154a Lulu Ramadan (@luluramadan) March 29, 2016In the immediate aftermath of the incident, Fields posted photos on Twitter showing the bruises caused by Lewandowski s actions.I guess these just magically appeared on me @CLewandowski_ @realDonaldTrump.
So weird.
pic.twitter.com/oD8c4D7tw3 Michelle Fields (@MichelleFields) March 10, 2016Lewandowski denied the claim, and linked to several websites that alleged that Fields was simply seeking attention and publicity.
He also called the reporter delusional.
Donald Trump himself said: Everybody said nothing happened.
Perhaps she made the story up.
Breitbart, who has faced allegations that it is financially allied with Trump, published a story casting doubt on Fields.
Internal communications from staffers slamming Breitbart were leaked, and Fields and editor Ben Shapiro publicly resigned from the site.A few days later, Lewandowski was involved in another incident, in which he appeared to physically grab someone at a Trump rally.
Here s video that moment:Here is Donald Trump's campaign manager in the Tucson crowd grabbing the collar of a protester.
pic.twitter.com/JZ9RntWlHY Jacqueline Alemany (@JaxAlemany) March 19, 2016The Trump campaign again denied what happened.Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks said Lewandowski wasn t the one responsible, instead placing the blame on a man standing to the left of Lewandowski.
The man seen to the left of Lewandowski in the video is a member of Trump s private security.Despite these incidents, the mainstream media has shied away from directly asking and confronting Trump about his top staffer s apparent habit of manhandling people.
Maybe they ll ask now?Featured image via Twitter