Call it tasteless and inappropriate if you will, but the entire planet is breathing a sigh of relief now that Climate Change denier Antonin Scalia has shed his mortal coil.
And what better way to celebrate the end of one of the most persistent obstructions to lowering carbon emissions than a super bloom in Death Valley one of the hottest spots on the planet?On Monday, the park posted an Instagram video showing thousands of tall yellow flowers vibrating the breeze.
We got you a valentine s day present it s thousands of flowers, the post read.A report on the website DesertUSA called the area south of Copper Canyon especially jaw-dropping.
Photos showed fields of yellow against the stark mountains in the background.Millions of beautiful flowers are blooming in a place named after death itself.
Message recieve, Gaia.
(Credit: Death Valley NP)The conservative wing of the Supreme Court has long stood in the way of taking any kind of action to curb America s carbon footprint.
Justice Scalia was the ringleader of the climate science denying circus with breathtakingly stupid comments like this one made in 2007: The issue was simply whether carbon was an environmental pollutant or not, he said.
I did not think it was ever regarded as that.
It is not the Atmospheric Protection Agency.
It s the Environmental Protection Agency.
That was the basis for my dissent.
The atmosphere is not part of our environment?
This was a sitting Supreme Court Justice and he knew less about the planet than your average 10 year old.
Or rather, he probably knew how stupid he sounded but his pro-corporate agenda was more important than his dignity.To put this in context, if Scalia s kind of thinking had been acceptable in the 1980s, The United States would have blocked the Montreal Protocols, ignored the depletion of the Ozone Layer and pretended that the sudden massive increase of skin cancer was perfectly natural.
After all, we can t legislate the atmosphere, right?Just to be clear on how intent Scalia was on blocking any kind of Climate Change legislation, he dropped this little gem of ignorance in 2006:James Milkey, assistant attorney general of Massachusetts, corrected Justice Antonin Scalia, saying: Respectfully, Your Honor, it is not the stratosphere.
It s the troposphere.
Troposphere, whatever, Justice Scalia replied.
I told you before I m not a scientist.
Over a brief flutter of laughter from observers, he added, That s why I don t want to have to deal with global warming, to tell you the truth.
Scalia also was not a doctor but he was more than eager to give women his expert medical opinion about why they shouldn t be allowed to have abortions or birth control.I m sure his friends and family will miss him but the billions of people most impacted by Climate Change will have a chance to survive now that Corporate America s champion of denial is gone.
I m not going to pretend I m not glad Scalia s seat is empty and, apparently, neither is the planet.Here s an Instagram video posted by the Death Valley National Park Service:We got you a valentine s day present it s thousands of flowers.
#YoureWelcome #BestValentineEverA video posted by Death Valley National Park (@deathvalleynps) on Feb 15, 2016 at 6:51am PSTFeatured image via Death Valley National Park Service