Donald Trump s best efforts to smear Democratic front runner Hillary Clinton have just been ruined and exposed thanks to the carelessness of his own campaign!On Wednesday, Politico reported that Trump s campaign was planning to roll out several attacks against the former Secretary of State, focusing on her involvement in the Whitewater real estate scandal which would be an entirely new strategy, considering that all Trump has been doing over the last few days is going after the sexual history and rape allegations of Hillary s husband, former president Bill Clinton.Trump s latest attack blueprint was revealed in an internal Trump campaign email, after campaign adviser Michael Caputo sent a request for a Republican National Committee researcher to work up information on HRC/Whitewater as soon as possible, stating that This is for immediate use and for the afternoon talking points process.
In the process of getting the information together, these plans were accidentally sent to an journalist.
How does the Trump campaign f*ck up this badly?
It s an interesting story.
According to Politico: The email was obtained by POLITICO when Trump campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks, who [Trump campaign adviser Michael Caputo] copied on his request to the RNC, accidentally responded instead to Marc Caputo, a POLITICO reporter who is not related to the Republican consultant.
And Trump s anti-Clinton strategy wasn t the only thing Hicks let slip through the cracks.
She also gave away the fact that RNC staffer Michael Abboud could possibly be jumping ship and joining the Trump campaign.
Hicks said, He is still an employee of the RNC and we need to be sensitive to that until he comes over to our team full time.
Hilariously, Hicks didn t realize how badly she d screwed up until about 20 minutes later and all she did to rectify it was send the journalist another email.
The email s subject line read, Wrong email, obviously and the message contained one pathetic word: Apologies.
Featured image via Joe Raedle / Getty Images