Lately, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has been making a show of reaching out to black voters.
Of course, it hasn t been actual black people he is speaking to; after all, other than Uncle Tom types like Omarosa and Don King, that s a voting bloc he s never going to win.
No, he s trying to send a signal to white voters who can t stomach voting for an overt racist that he s not, well, racist.
He s trying to make them forget all the racist garbage he s spewed throughout this campaign and throughout his life.Perhaps the most despicable part of this so-called outreach is the fact that he is using the black community to try and score political points.
He is going to black churches and troubled communities to try and convince people that he cares.
Well, one place that Trump tried to use on his crazy outreach tour has completely rebuffed him: The International Civil Rights Center and Museum in Greensboro, North Carolina.According t0 Earl Jones, co-founder of the museum, Trump s team made a list of exploitative demands that disrespected the museum staff and insisted upon special treatment for Trump including closing the place down for hours on end so that Trump could come.
Well, that wasn t happening for sure, Jones said.
The co-founder went on to say of the Trump camp s request: We did not honor the request of the Donald Trump team because we thought they demonstrated, in their approach was disrespectful, so therefore we did not grant that request.The approach, the type of disrespect, pretty much a demand and bullying us to use the museum in their manner and their way in their time, it was inappropriate and I think it s probably reflective of the type of insensitivity of civil rights and human rights that s reflective from Trump over the years.
Who wouldn t want to be a fly on the wall when Trump got THIS news?
That was probably a temper tantrum for the ages.
Kellyanne Conway probably had to take his phone for hours on end so that he wouldn t attack these people on Twitter for daring to stand up to his blatant and aggressive attempts to use them to score political points.Anyone who isn t completely tone deaf here knows that Trump doesn t give a damn about black people or anyone else, for that matter and it s about time that some of these places stop allowing Trump to use them to engage in his disgusting brand of dog whistle racist politics.Well done, International Civil Rights Center and Museum, and Earl Jones.
It s about time someone called Trump on his shit.Featured image via Spencer Platt/Getty Images