21st Century Wire says On Twitter today, President Donald Trump announced that he will ban transgender people from serving in the US military in any capacity.The move reverses Barack Obama s previous decision to allow transgender personnel from serving.Trump explained the practical dillemas in being forced to cater to the progressive gender agenda: After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.
Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.
After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017 .Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.
Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming .. Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017 .victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.
Thank you Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017Former US Olympic Decathalon gold medal winner Bruce Jenner recently began a sex change and has since renamed himself Caitlyn Jenner.After Trump s announcement, Jenner then tweeted: There are 15,000 patriotic transgender Americans in the US military fighting for all of us.
What happened to your promise to fight for them?
There are 15,000 patriotic transgender Americans in the US military fighting for all of us.
What happened to your promise to fight for them?
https://t.co/WzjypVC8Sr Caitlyn Jenner (@Caitlyn_Jenner) July 26, 2017EDITOR S NOTE: No doubt, the Russians, the Chinese, ISIS and North Korea must be shaking in their boots at the mere thought of Jenner s military proposition.Star Trek actor and LGBT activist, George Takei, lashed-out against Trump s tweets on Wednesday:Donald: With your ban on trans people from the military, you are on notice that you just pissed off the wrong community.
You will regret it.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) July 26, 2017See other liberal celebrities Twitter reactions as well as Chelsea Manning here.Watch this interview on liberal daytime TV talk show, The View, as Jenner explains his/her politics and what it s like to be a transgender registered Republican: READ MORE POLITICALLY CORRECT NEWS AT: 21st Century Wire PC FilesSUPPORT OUR WORK BY SUBSCRIBING & BECOMING A MEMBER @21WIRE.TV