Fox Business host, Stuart Varney, had an interview with Nevada Superdelegate, Erin Bilbray, that made Varney get more than a little angry.
Bilbray has pledged to vote for Bernie Sanders during the Democratic National Convention.
Varney became hot under the collar because Bilbray supports higher taxes for the rich.Varney has a net worth of approximately $10 million dollars.
That means the financial analyst would probably be paying more in taxes should Sanders win the White House and get some of his proposals passed.
Varney argues against Sanders proposals to make taxes a bit more progressive to address skyrocketing income inequality, saying You re going to take it off me and give it to somebody else.
I got it.
Okay.
Bilbray defends her position.
However, Varney wasn t hearing it.
Let s not beat around the bush, Varney goes on to say.
He is going to take it off me.
I already pay 60 percent of my income in taxes and he wants more.
Please, don t confuse the issue, he is going to take it off me and give it to somebody else.
If you think that s okay, that s fine with me.
I don t. Let me move on.
Varney, seemingly not wanting to have a conversation about facts or policy, insists on having a conversation about the morality of having the rich pay a higher share of taxes.
Bilbray says that she wasn t prepared to have a conversation about morality.
Though she thinks it isn t moral for people to be working as they as they are and still struggle just to get by.Varney only repeats his earlier position, while steadily growing angrier.Now, Sanders himself has called income inequality the great moral issue of our time.
Sanders has revealed himself to have a humanist philosophy on morality.
Sanders also happens to have a lot of respected economists who agree with his tax policy proposals too.
Sanders recently explained his spirituality, saying: I believe that, as a human being, the pain that one person feels, if we have children who are hungry in America, if we have elderly people who can t afford their prescription drugs, you know what, that impacts you, that impacts me.
And I worry very much about a society where some people spiritually say, It doesn t matter to me.
I got it, I don t care about other people.
So my spirituality is that we are all in this together and that when children go hungry, when veterans sleep out on the street, it impacts me.
That s my very strong spiritual feelings.
It would be a pleasure to see a gentleman like Sanders have this conversation with Varney.You can watch the interview below:Featured image from video screenshot.