Right after Ted Cruz suspended his presidential campaign, evangelical Christians went nuts, pouring sadness and fear all over social media about their own fate now that their personal government crusader was not going to make it to the White House.
Now, it seems they ve gone into complete, total and utter despair, crying that there s nobody left to represent them and their dominionist ideals.According to the Washington Post, Nebraska Pastor Gary Fuller had a Sunday service planned around Ted Cruz remaining in the race.
Instead, he had to tell his congregation to vote according to their convictions because he didn t know what else to say.
He also said: In a sense, we feel abandoned by our party.
There s nobody left.
Honestly, B-O-O H-O-O.
Religion needs to be left out of government, and if they have to learn that lesson the hard way, tough bananas.The Post notes that evangelicals tend to vote according to social and moral issues, and Ted Cruz ran his campaign on those issues.
Candidates that run on social issues tend not to do well, though, because there are far more pressing issues on which to vote than who s screwing whom, who s marrying whom, and what women are having done in their doctors offices.These people have a problem with Trump s being married three times to three different women, and the fact that he doesn t have much interest in fighting for their ideals on social issues.
He s a hardliner on immigration, and his main focus has been on that, plus jobs and the economy, however crazy and unworkable his ideas actually are.
Social issues are non-issues to Trump right now, which, if the GOP unifies behind him, makes them non-issues for the entire party.Russell Moore, of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, whined to the Post: This year the Republican Party has not just surrendered on the culture wars, they ve joined the other side.
And that s a unique situation.
Many evangelical Christians don t seem to believe in the 1st Amendment some, like disgraced Alabama Supreme Court Justice Roy Moore, even think religious protection only applies to Christianity.
Anything else is infringement on their beliefs, even if it doesn t directly affect them.Ted Cruz was their savior, and now he s out.To this, we say our hearts bleed pink carbonated peanut butter for them and their dashed hopes for turning us into a Christian nation this year.Featured image by Richardlwelsh.
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Commons