People have called former President George W. Bush lots of things.
War criminal.
Worst President Ever.
Terrorist.
Dipshit.
F*ckface.
But it is doubtful that any African-American man, woman, or child (especially after his response to Hurricane Katrina) would ever call him my nigga.
While Republicans are understandably confused by Larry Wilmore s term of endearment for the President at the Correspondents Dinner after all, they are used to calling him the -er variation of the word rather than the one Wilmore used many view Wilmore s ability to infuriate the right in this manner as the only redeeming aspect of his otherwise godawful comedy routine.
So, Mr. President, I m going to keep it a hundred.
Yo Barry, you did it, my n*gga, Wilmore said at the dinner, a phrase that most recognized as a positive remark but the Right felt was a reminder of that n-word thing they don t get to use when referencing President Obama.Upon hearing Wilmore call the President my nigga, Fox host Todd Starnes, for example, nearly exploded into a noxious cloud of rage and envy after hearing Wilmore use a variation of something that he s been screaming inside his head for years as he pretended that Wilmore s words were somehow offensive.
Sharing in Starnes feigned outrage is conservative talk show host and imbecile Jimmy Mathis, who threw an almost temper tantrum on Sunday over Wilmore s ability to use the word.Suddenly, for the first time in his presidency, Mathis feels that Barack Obama deserves respect.
That s the jealousy felt by the Stupid Part of America that is so pervasive that they are now talking about respecting this President the same one they have been screaming about for years.Mathis said that public figures like Wilmore (and, presumably, Fox News hosts and other noted right-wing icons) should go above and beyond to try to be as respectful to the individual and the office as possible a complete departure from what typically happens in conservative media.
Mathis whined that no one called President George W. Bush my nigga : And then you have Larry Wilmore Correct me if I m wrong, I don t remember anybody while roasting [President George Bush] dropped the N-word in the final White House Correspondents Dinner.If I were President Obama, I would have walked off that stage, I would have walked off.
No way you re going to disrespect me and the office.
This is not a P.C.
society thing.
I can t imagine standing feet from the President of the United States and saying that, Mathis said, though like all conservatives it s probably something that is a commonly recurring theme in his dreams.Here s a thought for Mathis: right now, at this very moment in time, the Republican frontrunner is endorsed by the KKK.
Until you condemn that, the rest of us especially people you regularly dismissively call the blacks or worse don t give a damn what you think about a black man saying my nigga.
Listen to his feigned outrage below, with a bonus caller who says a bunch of racist stuff Mathis accepts without question:Featured image via screengrab