Baltimore Police officers shot a 13-year-old boy who was carrying a toy BB-gun.
The shooting occurred just as the city hit the one-year anniversary of demonstrations after the killing of Freddie Gray and concerns about police brutality and training swept the country.A 13-year-old boy was shot by a police officer in Baltimore on Wednesday, after the officer saw what he believed to be a semi-automatic handgun, officials said.What officers thought was a handgun ultimately proved to be a replica BB gun, Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis told reporters.The boy was expected to survive his injuries, Davis said.
My thoughts and prayers are with him, Davis said.
My thoughts and prayers are with his family.
Baltimore Police later released this photo of the BB gun:Police also took in the boy s mother, and video footage was released of that:.
@namenzie Correction: Boy shot by cops is not dead.
Grainy/compressed vid of mother "taken in."
#BaltimoreUprising pic.twitter.com/4wvdasXhjZ Nicola_A_Menzie (@namenzie) April 27, 2016A police commander was caught on video alleging that the gun looked 1,000 percent real.
NEW: Man records police commander explaining this afternoon's shooting of 13 yr old.
"That gun looked 1000% real" pic.twitter.com/FEtYNE8LUX Justin Fenton (@justin_fenton) April 27, 2016Crime reporter Justin Fenton noted that the shooting comes on a violent week in Baltimore, where 16 people have been shot with 9 killed over the last three days.Even though the shooting has not yet been completely investigated, the police commissioner told the Baltimore Sun there is no reason to believe that these officers acted inappropriately in any way.
It is a message that echoes several similar statements issued by police departments seeking to defend their own, only to have supplementary video footage or testimony contradict the claims of officers on the ground.Recently the family of 12-year-old Tamir Rice entered into a legal settlement with the city of Cleveland after the child was shot and killed while holding a toy gun.
In that case, police claimed the boy was reaching into his waistband, which prompted the lethal shooting.
Surveillance footage proved this was inaccurate, but the officer involved, Timothy Loehmann, was not indicted.Featured image via Facebook