Donald Trump has gotten himself in a world of trouble over his slams of Gold Star families, particularly the Khan family.
He whined and cried that Khizr Khan, whose son died in Iraq, had attacked him at the DNC and he s just been defending himself, this whole time.
He s brought up all the sacrifices he has made, because everything he does is totally the same thing as someone giving their life for their country.What were those sacrifices?
They re listed below as part of this David Granlund cartoon that makes all of life in the spotlight very awkward if you re Trump:#NeverTrump #GoldStarFamilyDonald Trump hasn t tweeted in over 2 hours pic.twitter.com/aKkMYtdpst TrumpHasn tTweetedIn (@HeHasntTweeted) August 2, 2016Just to recap, Trump has sacrificed:Let s see the disaster that was his Atlantic City properties is enough evidence to call most of this true.
Of course, he doesn t see it that way at all.
He s a raving success for his entire life, and his failures are just lies made up by the evil, liberal, mainstream media.Trump University is more evidence of the above because he scammed thousands of students out of thousands of dollars each.
He s done all kinds of weaseling about that, but the fact remains that Trump U. was a scam and students were left on the hook for their money and without learning anything useful, like Trump s path to riches and glory.A few days ago, Trump was asked specifically what he gave up for his country that was in any way comparable to a soldier giving up his life.
He seriously thinks that he gave up as much as Captain Khan and every other soldier who s ever died, and their families, in creating those thousands of jobs he likes to brag about.He also thinks that donations are this huge sacrifice, and actually said he works very, very hard, bragged about his tremendous success, and talked up the fact that he thinks he s done a lot here.
The truth is, General Draft Dodger McSmallhands created all those jobs, built all those structures, and made all those donations to enrich himself.
Whatever benefits there were to society are side deals to him.And if people are hurt when his deals go south?
Too bad for them, it seems.As for the future of the GOP, well, he s sounded their death knell.
They re too cowardly to stand up to him and his gross insults of Gold Star families, and most of America is outraged over both Trump s statements and the GOP s lack of meaningful censure.So those are the sacrifices that Trump has really made oh wait.
There are two more.
He sacrificed two marriages in order to build his empire.
Be still our beating hearts.Featured image by Alex Wong/Getty Images