Hollywood producer kingpin and mega-Democrat Party donor, Harvey Weinstein s abusive sexual predator behavior has shined a light on all of Hollywood, and in the process has shined an even brighter light on the hypocrisy of the Democrat Party and their media allies.
The leftist media is now being forced to discuss how Democrats have turned a blind eye to decades of criminal sexual assaults by Bill Clinton and given a pass to his wife Hillary, who enabled him by threatening his victims to remain silent.Four days ago, the hard-left MSNBC host Chris Hayes made a stunning admission about the hypocrisy of the Democrat Party, and how they are long overdue for a real reckoning with the allegations against Bill Clinton that have been swept under the carpet, while the victims were shamed.As gross and cynical and hypocrtical as the right's "what about Bill Clinton" stuff is, it's also true that Democrats and the center left are overdue for a real reckoning with the allegations against him.
Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) November 10, 2017Yesterday, The Atlantic came out with a damning article that blames the fake feminism movement on the left, as well as the Democrat Party, who has allowed a double standard to exist when it comes to blindly protecting and defending the Clinton s against any, and all sexual misconduct allegations.Yet let us not forget the sex crimes of which the younger, stronger Bill Clinton was very credibly accused in the 1990s.
Juanita Broaddrick reported that when she was a volunteer on one of his gubernatorial campaigns, she had arranged to meet him in a hotel coffee shop.
At the last minute, he had changed the location to her room in the hotel, where she says he very violently raped her.
She said that she fought against Clinton throughout a rape that left her bloodied.
At a different Arkansas hotel, he caught sight of a minor state employee named Paula Jones, and, Jones said, he sent a couple of state troopers to invite her to his suite, where he exposed his penis to her and told her to kiss it.
Kathleen Willey said that she met him in the Oval Office for personal and professional advice and that he groped her, rubbed his erect penis on her, and pushed her hand to his crotch.It was a pattern of behavior; it included an alleged violent assault; the women involved had far more credible evidence than many of the most notorious accusations that have come to light in the past five weeks.
But Clinton was not left to the swift and pitiless justice that today s accused men have experienced.
Rather, he was rescued by a surprising force: machine feminism.
The movement had by then ossified into a partisan operation, and it was willing eager to let this friend of the sisterhood enjoy a little droit de seigneur.The Atlantic went on to point out an op-ed by the so-called Champion of women s rights Gloria Steinem, where she slut-shamed and bashed the women who dared to come forward and accuse Bill Clinton of rape and other forms of criminal sexual assault.The notorious 1998 New York Times op-ed by Gloria Steinem must surely stand as one of the most regretted public actions of her life.
It slut-shamed, victim-blamed, and age-shamed; it urged compassion for and gratitude to the man the women accused.Called Feminists and the Clinton Question, it was written in March of 1998 when Paula Jones s harassment claim was working its way through court.
It was printed seven days after Kathleen Willey s blockbuster 60 Minutes interview with Ed Bradley.
If all the various allegations were true, wrote Steinem, Bill Clinton was a candidate for sex addiction therapy.
To her mind, the most credible accusations were those of Willey, who she noted was old enough to be Monica Lewinsky s mother.
And then she wrote the fatal sentences that invalidated the new understanding of workplace sexual harassment as a moral and legal wrong: Even if the allegations are true, the President is not guilty of sexual harassment.
He is accused of having made a gross, dumb, and reckless pass at a supporter during a low point in her life.
She pushed him away, she said, and it never happened again.
In other words, President Clinton took no for an answer.
Steinem said the same was true of Paula Jones.
These were not crimes; they were passes.
Broaddrick was left out by Steinem, who revealed herself as a combination John and Bobby Kennedy of the feminist movement: the fair-haired girl and the bare-knuckle fixer.
The widespread liberal response to the sex-crime accusations against Bill Clinton found their natural consequence 20 years later in the behavior of Harvey Weinstein: Stay loudly and publicly and extravagantly on the side of signal leftist causes and you can do what you want in the privacy of your offices and hotel rooms.
But the mood of the country has changed.
We are in a time when old monuments are coming down and men are losing their careers over things they did to women a long time ago.When more than a dozen women stepped forward and accused Leon Wieseltier of a serial and decades-long pattern of workplace sexual harassment, he said, I will not waste this reckoning.
It was textbook Wieseltier: the insincere promise and the perfectly chosen word.
The Democratic Party needs to make its own reckoning of the way it protected Bill Clinton.
The party needs to come to terms with the fact that it was so enraptured by their brilliant, Big Dog president and his stunning string of progressive accomplishments that it abandoned some of its central principles.
The party was on the wrong side of history, and there are consequences for that.
Yet expedience is not the only reason to make this public accounting.
If it is possible for politics and moral behavior to coexist, then this grave wrong needs to be acknowledged.
If Weinstein and Mark Halperin and Louis C. K. and all the rest can be held accountable, so can our former president and so can his party, which so many Americans so desperately need to rise again.Watch Gloria Steinem several years after writing the op-ed where she shamed Bill s victims, helping to celebrate Hillary s birthday while honoring the woman who threatened the women bravely stepped forward to expose her sexually abusive husband Bill Clinton.Grant J. Kidney s video that he posted to Twitter, really shows the slow, but necessary admission by the leftist media, that they too, bear responsibility for shaming Bill Clinton s victims, simply because believing them, or giving them any kind of credibility, would ve harmed the Democrat Party they are beholden to.
Fake News CNN admits that Bill Clinton is a rapist.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions must launch an immediate criminal probe into the dirty dealings of the Clinton Foundation as well as into the sexually perverted past of former President Bill Clinton.
pic.twitter.com/oVUHn1LPej GRANT J. KIDNEY (@GrantJKidney) November 14, 2017Who can forget how the media attacked Donald Trump for bringing up the allegations of sexual abuse by Bill Clinton s abusers during his debate with Hillary?
Will the media apologize to President Trump, now that they ve come to the conclusion they are as guilty as the Democrat Party for hiding decades of sexual abuse, and then criticizing Trump for defending Bill and Hillary s victims?For anyone who is wondering if Gloria Steinem has had a change of heart, after having a significant time to reflect on her defense of the Clinton Crime family and slut-shaming Bill s innocent victims, you don t need to wonder anymore.
On October 20, 2017, Gloria Steinem announced that she will be warding that Hillary Clinton would be the first recipient of her Wonder Woman Award.
The Women s Media Center, co-founded by feminist Gloria Steinem, told us that it is giving the latest Democratic presidential candidate its first Wonder Woman Award for her extraordinary accomplishments and public service.
Like Wonder Woman, she seems to have superhuman strength, resilience, and courage, said the group in a reference to the famous comic and TV character.
Hillary Clinton s actions have inspired and protected women and men on every continent, said Steinem.
She has battled negative forces and helped to maintain a fragile peace with her negotiating skill on behalf of this country and peace-seekers everywhere.
She has handled all this with grace, grit, determination, integrity, humor and fortitude while remaining a steadfast feminist, advocate, activist, sister and tireless leader in the revolution.
With this award, the Women s Media Center declares Hillary Clinton our Wonder Woman.
The Washington Examiner