While Donald Trump has staked a large part of his campaign on being tough on terror, one of his own supporters is going to jail for plotting a terror attack against Muslim Americans.
Trump is yet to release a single word condemning this genuine threat to life, and any right-thinking world, that should end his campaign.55 year old William Celli, of Richmond in California, received a 90 day jail term and three years probation for a plot to explode a bomb in an act of domestic terrorism against Muslims.The court heard how Celli yelled, I m going to kill you all!
outside the Islamic Society of West Contra Costa County.Later, the bomb squad was called to his home, where they found an explosive device which Celli had planned to use against the mosque.
The would-be terrorist accepted a plea deal.The case is another cause of great concern for the Muslim community, who have faced a spike in hate crimes since the San Bernardino shootings.
Muslims are being attacked on the streets, and their places of worship are being violated and even burned to the ground.
While responsible lawmakers and political leaders attempt to bring America together, Donald Trump has staked his campaign on quite the opposite.After the attacks on Paris, Trump called for a ban on all Muslims entering the US, even Muslim Americans attempting to return from holiday.
After the Brussel s bombings, he made further despicable comments against Muslims in general while failing to even express sympathy with those who lost their lives of loved ones.This attitude, the leveraging of fear into hate, has done wonders for his presidential campaign but very little for social cohesion in the country.
Now, one of his own supporters has taken the next logical step inside Trump s logic, he went to war with Muslims.As Raw Story reports:He appears to be a strong admirer of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump who was stoking Islamaphobic fears in the weeks prior to Celli s arrest in the wake of mass shootings in Paris and San Bernardino, California.
Donald trumps on again I m happy leaders okay but this guys a great point man I ll follow this MAN to the end of the world, Celli posted Oct. 21.
Donald Trump s on again I m feeling good about myself, he posted Oct. 28.
While Trump commented immediately with gross generalization about Muslims in the wake of terrorist acts half way round the world he is yet to utter a single word on this attempted act of domestic terrorism.
He has neither denounced Celli, or the views the wannabe attacker espoused.
He has also failed to reassure the Muslim community of any actions he would take as President to protect their lives, businesses and places of worship from such domestic terrorists.This is because Donald Trump fails to understand the central responsibility of being President of the United States.
If elected, he has to be President of all of it; every man, woman and child in the country, whether they voted for him or not, whether they share his religion or world view or not.This may fly straight over the heads of die-hard Trump supporters, willfully ignored.
But it must not be overlooked by the broader American public.
It is moments like this that will kill the Trump campaign when his race to win over Republicans is complete, and he is faced with the impossible task of winning over a very different kind of audience.Featured image via Facebook