On Monday, Donald Trump accused the President of the United States of being an ISIS sympathizer and when the Washington Post reported on it, he threw a tantrum that culminated in his taking the unprecedented step of banning one of the biggest newspapers in the country from having access to his campaign.
To put that in its proper context, during the height of the Watergate scandal, an event begun by two Washington Post reporters, President Richard Nixon didn t even try to pull press credentials.
It was literally unthinkable.On Facebook, Trump went on a rant about how unfair the Washington Post was being for accurately quoting him.I am no fan of President Obama, but to show you how dishonest the phony Washington Post is, they wrote, Donald Trump suggests President Obama was involved with Orlando shooting as their headline.
Sad!Based on the incredibly inaccurate coverage and reporting of the record setting Trump campaign, we are hereby revoking the press credentials of the phony and dishonest Washington Post.To be clear, Trump is as is often the case openly and unapologetically lying.
Earlier in the day, he went on Fox News and remarked that the reason Obama can t stop terror attacks in the United States is because he doesn t want to.
We re led by a man who is a very look, we re led by a man that either is, is not tough, not smart, or he s got something else in mind.
And the something else in mind, you know, people can t believe it.
People cannot they cannot believe that President Obama is acting the ways he acts and can t even mention the words radical Islamic terrorism.
There s something going on.
It s inconceivable.
And when reporters asked him to clarify, he refused, and cryptically added that he would let people decide for themselves what he meant.
Trump who has been on record for years as being a birther knows what conclusions his fans will draw.
Why rock the boat by turning that particular dog whistle into a bull horn?By one count, Trump has banned at least seven media outlets from covering his campaign due to unflattering treatment.
(This doesn t include the news programs or journalists whom Trump simply refuses to talk to because of personal beefs.
)We count at least 7 outlets Trump has barred from events Nat Review, Daily Beast, HuffPo, Buzzfeed, WaPo, Politico, DMR, who else?
Alexandra Jaffe (@ajjaffe) June 13, 2016A few more: Mother Jones and Univision.
There are likely others.
There will likely be more soon.So when the Washington Post was added to the list, the paper s editor Marty Baron released a scathing statement calling Trump on his fascistic view towards the free press.
Donald Trump s decision to revoke The Washington Post s press credentials is nothing less than a repudiation of the role of a free and independent press.
When coverage doesn t correspond to what the candidate wants it to be, then a news organization is banished.
The Post will continue to cover Donald Trump as it has all along honorably, honestly, accurately, energetically, and unflinchingly.
We re proud of our coverage, and we re going to keep at it.
In short, don t expect the Washington Post to just roll over.
They are going to continue to go after Trump wherever and whenever he tries to pull a fast one on the American people.Trump has also flirted with the idea of getting rid of the free press altogether once he is president.
On at least one occasion Trump told his supporters that he would open up libel laws and viciously and aggressively sue any media outlet that tries to criticize him.
With such a fundamental danger to America s First Amendment, only one news network embraced Trump s moves towards tyranny: His friends at Fox.Stuart Varney on Fox Business calls @washingtonpost reporters looking into Trump "henchmen" of Jeff Bezos.
pic.twitter.com/F8CxcNeOZn John Whitehouse (@existentialfish) May 12, 2016They must assume they re safe.
With the sunny coverage they give Trump, it s unlikely that they ll lose their credentials any time soon.Featured image via Gerardo Mora/Getty Images