For some reason, Donald Trump decided to speak to a group of women at a women s empowerment event on Wednesday, on one of the final days of Women s History Month.
It didn t go well.First he bragged about the number of women in his cabinet.
There are six women.
Out of 24.
That s 25 percent.
Less than half of what would be representative of the nation as a whole.
It s also the whitest and most male cabinet since Ronald Reagan.It got worse.
Trump went on to name women, famous women, although there s no indication that Trump knew why many of them were famous.
The first part wasn t soooooo bad: Since the very beginning, women have driven, and I mean, each generation of Americans, towards a more free and more prosperous future, Trump said.
These patriots are women like the legendary Abigail Adams, right?
Who, during the founding, urged her husband to remember the rights of women.
She was very much a pioneer in that way.
We ve been blessed with courageous heroes like Harriet Tubman who escaped slavery.
And went on to deliver hundreds of others to freedom, first in the underground railroad and then as a spy for the union army.
She was very, very courageous, believe me.
Source: Raw StoryIt very quickly became clear he was out of his intellectual element when he completed that thought with:Around we ve had leaders like Susan B. Anthony.
Have you heard of Susan B. Anthony?
I m shocked that you ve heard of her who dreamed of a much more fair and equal future and an America where women themselves as she said helped to make laws and elect the lawmakers, and that s what s happening more and more.
Of course, it s not shocking at all that a group of women have in fact heard of the suffragette and all around social justice warrior.
There was even a coin with her face on it, but to be fair, it s doubtful Trump carries cash.
Other people pay all of his bills.Trump, though, had clearly never heard of Anthony, at least before someone briefed him right before the event.Here s the video:Perhaps Trump s handlers (whoever they are) need to remind the orange dictator that he should never, ever speak to people who aren t white and male.Featured image via video screen capture