Donald Trump s Muslim ban was one of the main focal points in his presidential campaign, but no one imagined that he d actually follow through with it so quickly after officially becoming President.Trump s first week in office was marked by several inhumane executive orders, one of which involved banning refugees from seven predominately Muslim countries.
As a result, on Saturday travelers to the U.S. were humiliated and detained for up to 12 hours at airports across the country, receiving word that they could not come into America as their relatives waited anxiously to hear what would happen.
It is a disgusting ordeal to put a family through, and signifies the breakdown of the U.S. Constitution under Trump s administration.Fortunately, people like Trump are not the majority.
In response to this disgusting ban, thousands of protesters gathered at airports around the country to fight for the rights of the citizens being detained.
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and volunteer lawyers got to work, offering their services pro bono to aide the detainees, and last night America finally saw its first win against Trump s tyranny.Brooklyn Federal Judge Ann Donnelly slapped the law down on Trump and was able to enact a nationwide temporary emergency block to Trump s Muslim ban, relieving these families and citizens from their anguish.
ACLU Executive Director Anthony D. Romero responded to the ruling: Clearly the judge understood the possibility for irreparable harm to hundreds of immigrants and lawful visitors to this country.
Our courts today worked as they should as bulwarks against government abuse or unconstitutional policies and orders.
On week one, Donald Trump suffered his first loss in court.
If you want to see just how monumental this was, you don t have to look any further than the outpouring of emotion that happened at Dulles Airport in North Virginia, after the Federal Judge granted travelers stay.
In a crowd of over 1,000 people, a family reunited for the first time after authorities detained a woman due to Trump s Muslim ban.
You can watch the powerful moment below:Amazing, emotional scenes here at Dulles as some passengers finally unite with crying relatives surrounded by protestors welcoming them.
pic.twitter.com/h8sW3LR75N (((YousefMunayyer))) (@YousefMunayyer) January 29, 2017We must never forget that what Trump is doing is not only cruel and ruining people s lives, but it is unconstitutional.
While this is only a temporary win, it shows that when Americans unite, we are capable of fighting even the greatest of evils.
We need to keep going.Featured image via Scott Eisen / Getty Images