The Republican National Convention starts this coming Monday, and things are not looking good for the GOP s biggest event for the next four years.
The problem, of course, is their standard-bearer, Donald Trump.
Many prominent Republicans are staying as far away from the convention as possible, they are still about $6 million short of actually paying for the whole thing, and to top it all off, it seems that RNC Chair Reince Priebus still can t get the #NeverTrump delegates to fall in line behind Trump.
Now, former presidential candidate Jeb Bush has become the latest to go on record saying that he is most definitely #NeverTrump.On Friday, Bush took his anti-Trump sentiments to the Washington Post, where he said that Trump had tapped into anger and frustration in Americans: They have given rise to the success of a candidate who continues to grotesquely manipulate the deeply felt anger of many Americans.
Trump s abrasive, Know Nothing-like nativist rhetoric has blocked out sober discourse about how to tackle America s big challenges.
Bush then continued to slam Trump throughout the article, and cautioned fellow Republican politicians about the tone of Trump s campaign and the stain he was putting upon the party.
He then went on to beg them to reintroduce civility, ideas and optimism back into politics.
Let s find ways to campaign and govern inclusively.
Let s find ways to ease the angst and fear of people, without cynically feeding it.
He then went on to say that he would not be voting for either Trump or Clinton, but might go for Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson: I haven t decided how I ll vote in November whether I ll support the Libertarian ticket or write in a candidate but I do know there are a lot of things Republicans can do in the coming months to lay the groundwork for rebuilding our party and the foundation for a true conservative renewal in our country.
The only sort-of compliment Bush had for Trump was his choice to choose Indiana Gov.
Mike Pence for the #2 spot on the GOP ticket, and it came via Twitter:Mike Pence is a good man.
He will add value to the ticket.
Jeb Bush (@JebBush) July 16, 2016Well, that s something I guess.
At the end of the day, good on Jeb Bush and the other #NeverTrump Republicans.
We don t agree on much, but we do agree that Donald Trump is dangerously unfit to be president of the United States.Featured image via Michael Vadon/Wikimedia