The Republican Party s establishment candidates are being thrashed by the evangelical right wingers.
So, when Jeb Bush went appeared on MSNBC s Morning Joe on Monday morning, he decided it was time to fight fire with fire.
He opened a can of whoop-ass.Bush took a moment to hit out at his Republcan peers for failing to take on Donald Trump.
He seems staggered by the success of the Trump campaign, which has turned former anticipated favorites into footnotes in the race so far.
He puts this down to other candidates being too scared to confront the bully.
It s just ridiculous.
I mean the guy, he s just a real estate guy he told the hosts.
He s gone bankrupt four times!
He s a successful man but not perfect by any stretch of the imagination, so why not confront him, challenge him?
Later on, Bush played a word association game about his Republican and Democrat rivals with host Mika Brzezinski.
The results were more than revealing.
Here were his answers:MIKA: Chris ChristieJEB!
: Great guy.MIKA: Marco RubioJEB!
: Work in progressMIKA: Hillary ClintonJEB!
: Can be beatenMIKA: Bernie SandersJEB!
: Love the ad!But the one the really stands out?
He summed up Trump Eoin just one word.MIKA: Donald TrumpJEB!
: Loser.There aren t really any issues where we agree with the platform of Jeb Bush.
Despite presenting himself as a moderate among the likes of Trump and Cruz, Bush is promising a pretty similar offer to America.
He is just another anti-science, anti-choice, pro-gun, creationist attempting to drag America back into the dark ages.
but on this one thing, Jeb: spot on.
It s actually the second time in 24 hours that Jeb!
has called Trump as loser.
He got a standing ovation for doing the same during an address in New Hampshire on Sunday night.But however angry Bush is, he is still polling below 10% in New Hampshire while Trump soars over 30%.
It appears the GOP is choosing which lunatic they want to run the asylum, and the crazier the better.
Featured image from video screen capture