Over sixty GOP national security buffs have taken a pledge to work energetically and do whatever it takes to stop Republican front runner Donald Trump from becoming the party s nominee for president.This colossal promise was released late Wednesday via an open letter signed by several different foreign policy experts who sincerely feel (along with the rest of us) that Trump s vision of America is wildly inconsistent and unmoored in principle.
In the letter, the concerned GOPers warned that if given the chance, President Trump would make America less safe and diminish our standing in the world.
The letter, in part, reads: Mr. Trump s own statements lead us to conclude that as president, he would use the authority of his office to act in ways that make America less safe, and which would diminish our standing in the world.Furthermore, his expansive view of how presidential power should be wielded against his detractors poses a distinct threat to civil liberty in the United States.As committed and loyal Republicans, we are unable to support a Party ticket with Mr. Trump at its head.
We commit ourselves to working energetically to prevent the election of someone so utterly unfitted to the office.
The letter was organized by former State Department official Eliot Cohen and former Mitt Romney adviser Bryan McGrath and was published by national security news site War on the Rocks as the GOP reached a record-high panic after Trump s success on Super Tuesday.
Cohen said of the letter, This is really drawing a bright moral line and saying that if we re going to keep our souls we can t cross it.
The letter is 454 words long, with signers blasting Trump for his expansive use of torture, his hateful, anti-Muslim rhetoric, and his not-so-subtle crush on Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Trump s proposal to make Mexico build a wall on its border also came under fire, as did his suggestion that Japan pay for military protection, stating that Trump was more like a racketeer than an ally.Max Boot, a foreign policy adviser to Mitt Romney s 2012 campaign and one of the letter s signers, said: I would sooner work for (North Korean dictator) Kim Jong Un than for Donald Trump.
I think Donald Trump is objectively more dangerous than Kim Jong Un and not as stable.
By refusing to support the Republican ticket if Trump is the party s nomination, these 60+ signers are waiving any possibility that they would obtain a high-level position with the Trump administration.
McGrath stated that this open letter didn t necessarily mean that the signers would be voting for a Democratic president, but noted that some of his colleagues said they had no other choice.
Featured image via Gage Skidmore