One of the House of Representatives more crazy members, Steve King, is fully on board Trump s train no matter how outlandish or insane he gets.
In fact, Steve King thinks the government needs to be purged of all dissenters by which he means anybody who deviates from Trump s (often-changing) beliefs.
An article appeared on the Conservative Review about this, and it s obvious that King believes the only way we can move forward is to purge everyone from the White House who doesn t likewise march in lockstep with the Trump train.The first paragraph of that ridiculous story says: At this point in the Obama administration, the newly-minted messiah had full control over every nook and cranny of the executive branch.
There was not one morsel of dissent, much less sabotage percolating through the ranks of former GOP presidential appointees within the deep state of the various departments.
Fast forward eight years and President Trump is at the cusp of losing control over his presidency if he doesn t immediately fire all of the Obama appointees.
This is evidently something on which Steve King, an actual U.S. Representative, believes too.
Otherwise why would he tweet the following:@RealDonaldTrump needs to purge Leftists from executive branch before disloyal, illegal & treasonist acts sink us.
https://t.co/o1DYtgA7aL Steve King (@SteveKingIA) March 6, 2017Leftists are disloyal why, Congressman King?
Because they don t march in lockstep with Trump like you do?
With Vladimir Putin, despite the fact that Russia is our enemy?
And here we thought Republicans actually believed in freedom, including the freedom to, you know, have different ideas about stuff.
First off, the Obama administration had plenty of dissent within its ranks.
For instance, Congressional Democrats held Obama s former chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, responsible for certain parts of the ACA that didn t pass Congress.Others strongly disagreed with how Obama was handling Syria.
So, Not one morsel of dissent?
OH PLEASE!
Obama was not the dictator conservatives tried to brainwash into thinking he was.As evidence of that, we have Steve King, who s one of the worst right-wingers we ever elected to Congress.
Republicans are supposed to support freedom, including freedom of anyone and everyone to disagree with the president.
In this case, it s Trump, who lost the popular vote.
King s ideas are the opposite of freedom in fact, the support fascism, dictatorships, and even monarchies based on the antithesis of American freedom.Trump should welcome dissent it would prevent tunnel vision and help him determine a course of action that s truly beneficial to the entire country.
Instead, he s a dictator who only cares about how many agree with him and are willing to puff him up.
King is one of those who would rather puff Trump up than do what s right for freedom and the country.
If nothing else, calling for a purge of dissenters from the White House should disqualify him from every government job he ll ever hold.Featured image via Scott Olson/Getty Images