A new report shows that we have at least 50 electors who were ineligible to cast their votes on Dec. 19.
As a result, a nationwide, bipartisan legal team is preparing a 1,000+ briefing for members of Congress, who still have to certify the vote on Friday, Jan. 6.
This number would bring Trump down from 306 to 256, making his election victory less-than Constitutionally legal.Republicans are absolute hypocrites they only whine about election fraud when it looks like things aren t going their way.
If things are going their way, then the votes are legit and any effort to prove otherwise is partisan bullshit.
It s quite similar to how Trump said he d accept the results of the election prior to Nov. 8 if he was the one who won.
Otherwise, look out, is what seemed to be his message.As part of their Electoral Vote Objection Packet, an advocacy group known as Americans Take Action tells Congress in no uncertain terms that at least 50 electoral votes were not regularly given or not lawfully certified.
That number could actually be over 100.
The group is non-partisan they have Republicans as well as Democrats and Independents working on this.They also have 15 attorneys, legal assistants and law students who prepared the brief pro bono to deliver to Congress in a last-ditch effort to get them to object to certifying the Electoral College s votes.
The illegitimate votes, according to the report, include two from Arkansas, one each from Louisiana, Michigan and Oklahoma, three from Texas, and seven from North Carolina.The report also includes electors who were ineligible because they already held public office, such as Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi (who s suspect as it is given that she dropped a case against Trump after he donated several thousand dollars to her reelection campaign).Ryan Clayton, of Americans Take Action, an advocacy group that headed up the effort behind both the research and the briefing, said: Trump s ascension to the presidency is completely illegitimate.
It s not just Russians hacking our democracy.
It s not just voter suppression at unprecedented levels.
It is also [that] there are Republicans illegally casting ballots in the Electoral College, and in a sufficient number that the results of the Electoral College proceedings are illegitimate as well.Republicans like to talk all the time about people voting illegally.
We have a list of a bunch of Republicans that allegedly voted illegally in the Electoral College.
Pam Bondi is the attorney general of the state of Florida and the Florida Constitution says that you cannot hold two offices.
And she holds the office of Attorney General and she holds the office of federal elector in the Electoral College.
That is a violation of the law.
That is a violation of the Constitution.
And the vote that she cast in this election is illegal.
This is a last-ditch effort and we re sure everyone knows this.
However, bringing this to the attention of Congress is the least anyone can do.
We cannot have an illegitimate election, whether it s by hacking from a foreign power, illegitimate electoral votes, or both.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images