Donald Trump and his administration have proven time and time again that they are incapable of performing even the most simple, basic tasks that only require basic human decency and manners.
The latest gaffe in the White House demonstrates that even as Trump s 100th day approaches, they still can t get their sh*t together.According to a White House aide and court spokeswoman, Trump did not extend a formal invitation to the Supreme Court to have dinner at the White House on Thursday.
An initial report that was released early Sunday stated that a dinner WOULD take place: That evening, the President will have dinner with the Justices of the Supreme Court, including his successfully confirmed nominee Justice Neil Gorsuch.
However, this changed just hours later.
On Sunday night, the dinner with the Supreme Court justices was taken off the agenda.
The White House aide confirmed: An invitation was never extended.
When White House press secretary Sean Spicer was questioned about the nixed dinner plans, Spicer said Trump s staffers moved some things around and perhaps the dinner might happen at a later time.
Spicer said: I think having a relationship and meeting with the Supreme Court at some point would be a great idea and something that we hope to have on the schedule at some point soon.
Trump s rude, disorganized cancellation is hardly the only issue with these tentative dinner plans.
While former presidents have had dinner with Supreme Court justices before, Trump s corrupt administration definitely raised some eyebrows when they first announced these dinner plans.
Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz said it best: Why would the Supreme Court agree to do this?
I can think of no legitimate reason to dine with a litigant.
No matter what Trump does, he can t help but raise ethical concerns as his scandals and conflict of interests only mount up.
Trump s administration is not only the most incompetent, lazy, and disorganized, but it is the most corrupt and must be watched closely.Featured image via Tom Pennington / Getty Images