Ted Cruz is not handling Sarah Palin endorsing Donald Trump very well at all.
Although, he s trying.
He probably thought he had her support in the bag, but she took her endorsement elsewhere.
After all, the reality television star loves screen time, and Donald Trump has definitely been getting the most out of anyone running from either party.Tuesday morning when the Palin s endorsement seemed imminent, Cruz s communication director Rick Tyler made a comment on CNN that may have really shown how Cruz was feeling at the moment.
Tyler said of Palin endorsing Trump: I think it [would] be a blow to Sarah Palin, because Sarah Palin has been a champion for the conservative cause, and if she was going to endorse Donald Trump, sadly, she would be endorsing someone who s held progressive views all their life .
Bristol Palin didn t take kindly to that at ALL.I like @TedCruz, but maybe THIS why people don t?
https://t.co/1cCwjRYjMt @RealDonaldTrump @SarahPalinUSA Bristol Palin (@BristolsBlog) January 19, 2016She wrote: After hearing what Cruz is now saying about my mom, in a negative knee-jerk reaction, makes me hope my mom does endorse Trump.
Cruz s flip-flop, turning against my mom who s done nothing but support and help him when others sure didn t, shows he s a typical politician.
How rude to that he s setting up a false narrative about her!America doesn t need that.
We need someone who has a vision for economic prosperity, who won t let us get kicked around in the world, and who will fight for our future.I didn t go to Harvard Law School, but I know this: You can like two people in a race, but there will only one president.The audacity to suggest that because she chooses one over the other will somehow damage her just shows arrogance.
However, once the sad wore off a little bit and the shock of the break up wasn t so raw, Cruz took to Twitter to let Palin know that even though their romance is no longer, he ll still think of her fondly from better days.Cruz tweeted out sans heart emoji: I love Sarah Palin.
Without her support, I wouldn t be in the Senate.
Regardless of what she does in 2016, I will always be a big fan.
I love @SarahPalinUSA Without her support, I wouldn't be in the Senate.
Regardless of what she does in 2016, I will always be a big fan.
Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) January 19, 2016It s got to be tough to see someone who you thought you could rely on run to another.
Maybe Cruz s crazy wasn t enough for her.
Maybe she needed the added splash of extra racism.
Racism that Trump is all to eager to dish out at every rally.
Who knows, really?
All we can hope for is that Palin brings the same luck she brought for John McCain.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (flickr/flickr)