There is something really off about Trump and his friends, and their relationships with their own daughters.
Infamously, Trump has at several times spoken lustfully over his own daughters.
In interviews Trump has freely admitted that he finds his eldest daughter, Ivanka, so attractive that he would likely be dating her if not for the pesky fact that she s related to him.
There s also the cringeworthy sex joke he once made while sitting next to Ivanka as the two sat down for an interview.But it s not just Trump.
His friends are equally weird about their daughters.Enter Michael Cohen, Trump s close friend and lawyer.
On Twitter, Cohen chose to celebrate his daughter s Ivy League education by posting a picture of the young woman wearing just a bra and pantyhose.So proud of my Ivy League daughter brains and beauty channeling her Edie Sedgwick.
On Instagram @samichka_ pic.twitter.com/mpQxhr3mh3 Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) May 15, 2017Why he chose to focus on her beauty and not her brains when bragging about her college choice is anyone s guess.
Further upping the ick factor, Cohen started responding to critics who were calling him out for the weird photo choice.
He suggested they were just jealous that his daughter was so hot.Nearly 12 hours later, Cohen has yet to delete a tweet in which he claims people are jealous that his own daughter is spank bank material.
As one Twitter user put it:@MichaelCohen212 @bonibrat Jealous?
No Creeped the fuck out?
Yup!
That s your DAUGHTER!
The MIXX (@TheMIXXRadio) May 15, 2017Like Ivanka, Cohen s daughter seems to be sticking with her father during this father-daughter controversy.
In a bizarre move, she retweeted his jealous comment and later claimed the whole controversy came from hypocritical Trump haters.
Sure This creepy exchange notwithstanding, Cohen is a piece of work for many reasons.
Ostensibly a practicing lawyer, Cohen has repeatedly demonstrated his inability to grasp even basic legal concepts.
He struggles even harder with moral ones, particularly when it comes to women.
When Trump s ex-wife described how Trump once raped her while the two were married, Cohen argued that wives couldn t be raped by their husbands by definition.
Michael Cohen, special counsel at The Trump Organization, defended his boss, saying, You re talking about the frontrunner for the GOP, presidential candidate, as well as a private individual who never raped anybody.
And, of course, understand that by the very definition, you can t rape your spouse.
Despite his dubious legal bona fides, Cohen remains in Trump s orbit because the pair are fiercely loyal to one another.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images