If you re a woman you re going to want to deck this asshole for what he just said.During an interview with the Christian Post this week, evangelist nut job Kirk Cameron said that no matter how wives are treated by their husbands they should be submissive and stay in the marriage because God commands it.
Wives are to honor and respect and follow their husband s lead, not to tell their husband how he ought to be a better husband, Cameron said before claiming that women should know their role so that the marriage can succeed.
When each person gets their part right, regardless of how their spouse is treating them, there is hope for real change in their marriage.
In other words, even if she is being beaten daily by her husband and treated like a slave, a wife should always remain submissive and basically let her husband do whatever they want without consequence.
And it s all because the Bible says so according to Cameron.
A lot of people don t know that marriage comes with instructions, he said.
And, we find them right there in God s word.
Seriously.
This is the advice Cameron has for women.Someone should call Cameron s wife and make sure she is okay because the former child actor clearly thinks domestic violence is something wives should just ignore instead of saving themselves and getting out of the marriage.Cameron is, of course, part of the conservative Christian fundamentalist movement which repeatedly preaches that women are nothing more than common house slaves meant to cook, clean, raise children, and talk only when their husbands give them permission to do so.Just take pastor Steven Anderson for instance.In February, Anderson posted a sermon in which he preached that women should be banned from voting, barred from seeking divorce, prevented from entering the workforce, and ought to be confined to the home where they are submissive to their husbands.
The right to divorce your husband is what they mean.
You know what they mean?
The right to rebel and disobey your husband, the right to divorce him, the right to go out and get a job and make your own money, the right to tell him what to do, the right to go vote for our leaders as if women should have any say in how our country is run when the Bible says that I suffer not a woman to teach, not to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.
Here s the video via YouTube:Two years earlier, Anderson demanded that women shut their mouths in church so that the men could teach them.
You have to wonder if Cameron believes that, too.Anderson has also preached that women shouldn t be allowed to talk, read, or leave the house.Basically, if conservative Christians like Steven Anderson or Kirk Cameron had their way women would be forbidden to have lives outside of the home and would be under the boot heel of their husbands day in and day out without a say in the matter.
And just think, many Republican lawmakers agree with them.It s a scary thought that should spur women across the country to use their right to vote to put men like Cameron and Anderson in their place.Featured Image: Facebook