Republicans everywhere have been denouncing Trump for his boasts about sexually assaulting women, but it seems that they can t stick to their guns.
In a very cowardly move, four Republicans have re-endorsed him, one has knuckled under and stayed quiet, and more are sure to follow both of these leads.
These weak-kneed, spineless rat turds are busy putting party over country, and it s disgusting.First up: Senator Deb Fischer of Nebraska.
She made her position clear on the radio shortly after the worst weekend Trump has ever had.
As a woman, there is no way she should still support him, and yet, she does for some sick reason: Well, like most Nebraskans, I am fully committed to defeating Hillary Clinton.
I support the Republican ticket and I plan to vote for Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence on November 8th.
She went on to say that she d never said she wouldn t vote for the GOP ticket, which is likely true, but smacks of making excuses.
All she s done is show that beating Hillary is more important than the very real danger of legitimizing sexual crimes, and making a predator into a role model for our children.
Giving in to that ideology is the move of a coward.Senator John Thune of South Dakota is next.
He tweeted that Trump should withdraw and Mike Pence should take over.
Now, though?
He s caved like the chickenshit he is, too.
He said: He has a lot of work to do, I think, to win this election.
But I m certainly not going to vote for Hillary Clinton.
So vote for Evan McMullin at least he s respectable, knowledgeable and sane, unlike Trump and his minions.New Jersey Congressman Scott Garrett said that he felt Mike Pence was a better candidate than Trump following Trump s unmasking as a sexual predator.
However, Garrett s campaign has since said that he still feels Trump is the best candidate to lead our country.
His spokesman said, in part: Donald Trump remains the nominee of the Republican Party, and Rep. Garrett has always said he will vote for the Republican Party nominee.
Scott Garrett s top priority in this election is stopping the Clinton-Gottheimer agenda of higher taxes, more wasteful spending, and weak national security policy.
All important issues, but dismissing half the electorate by essentially saying, Sure, we care about you, but your problems with sexual assault are just not that important, right now is clueless and vile.
It s typical sexism, actually.In fourth place, but tied for first, is Congressman Bradley Byrne of Alabama.
We probably shouldn t be surprised that an official from Alabama would decide to support Trump, though, even after sixteen straight months of rotting vomit spewing forth from his mouth.
Byrne was one of the first officials in Alabama to call on Trump to step down, but apparently, that s all changed now that it s been a week since Trump s hot mic tape was released.Byrne s spokesman, Seth Burrow, said: He will support the Republican ticket on Election Day, as he has pledged to do all along.
He just believes that person should be Mike Pence.
He just believes that person should be Mike Pence, is one of the worst cop-outs in the long, sad history of bad cop-outs.And last, but certainly not least, is Paul Ryan.
While he has refused to campaign with Trump anymore, and even disinvited him to an event in Wisconsin, he s got an extraordinarily flimsy position on Trump now.
He won t talk about Trump, and he seems to be urging people to just kind of forget about Trump s Twitter storms and other problems.No mention of Trump being a sexual predator, which is unbelievably hypocritical for someone as Christian as Paul Ryan.
To be sure, Ryan never rescinded his endorsement of Trump, and apparently, that position has not changed.
It s still sick.More Republicans are sure to follow as they decide their party is more important than actually standing for what s right.
They are bloody pieces of feces-infused wimpiness for that, considering they keep trumpeting every type of moral value there is.Photo of Deb Fischer by Mark Wilson, photo of John Thune by Alex Wong, photo of Scott Garrett by Chip Somodevilla, Photo of Paul Ryan by Win McNamee, via Getty Images.
Photo of Bradley Byrne By U.S. House Of Representatives, Public Domain via Wikipedia.
All photos merged by Rika Christensen