Who says President Trump isn t moving on his agenda?
Neil Gorsuch became the 113th justice of the Supreme Court today!
Be happy America!
Our president chose a perfect candidate to replace Justic Scalia.Now if we can just get Ruth to step down That would be great!
She s hanging on for dear life because she knows Trump will pick someone who s NOT a liberal hack.
It s puzzling that she even made it on the court because of her very liberal views!
She s an outspoken critic of President Trump and has recently spoken out on his immigration policy.Gorsuch took the Constitutional Oath in a private ceremony, administered by Chief Justice John Roberts in the Supreme Court s Justice s Conference Room.
He was accompanied by his wife Louise, who held the Bible, and his two daughters.
That oath will be followed by a public ceremony at the White House where Justice Anthony Kennedy Gorsuch s former boss will administer the Judicial Oath.Gorsuch takes the seat of the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in February last year, and whom Gorsuch has been compared favorably to by conservatives hopeful for another originalist on the court.Gorsuch is likely to cast a deciding vote in a number of high-profile cases, which in part explains the terse and partisan hearing the 49-year-old faced.
The high stakes led Republicans to trigger the nuclear option last week to kill the 60-vote filibuster threshold for Supreme Court nominees.Justice Anthony Kennedy, Gorsuch s former boss, administered the Judicial Oath in the Rose Garden with President Donald Trump present.
Fox News continued: In his remarks, Gorsuch thanked his family and the American people for entrusting him with such an important job: To the American people, I am humbled by the trust placed in me today, Gorsuch said after taking the oath.
I will never forget to whom much is given to much will be expected, and I promise you that I will do all my powers permit to be a faithful servant of the Constitution and laws of this great nation.