Okay, nobody can accuse Bill O Reilly of being a supporter of Obama, but his show tonight was off the charts.
He decided it would be a good idea to remind his audience just how President Obama has made the world a really terrible place.
To that end, he proceeded to use his show to blame Obama for absolutely everything wrong with the world right now.So just what is Obama responsible for?
Let us count them alongside Media Matters for America:O Reilly says there s more, but his show is only so long so he probably thinks he can t list them.
But he made some wild leaps of logic, like the following on terrorism and Brexit: Mr. Obama s failure to destroy Assad s air force in Syria, when he could have, after drawing that red line over poison gas, has directly led to millions of refugees storming into Europe.
That crisis has profoundly damaged the region and perhaps even stimulated Great Britain leaving the European Union.
Really?
He s looking at a series of events and putting them together in what he must think is a totally logical way, without even trying to understand some of the underlying factors, like immigrants from Eastern Europe as well as a sense that Britain had lost its sovereignty.
It s really a wonder that Billo the Clown thinks his show is all about telling the truth.The whole, race relations are worse now under Obama, thing is misleading, and reeks of Oh, well, Obama s black and liberal and his political correctness is responsible for deteriorating race relations.
No, O Reilly and his ilk need to pull their collective heads out of their collective asses before speaking of things they know nothing about.
Race relations were last this bad in 1992, after Rodney King, not the 60s, and while this has happened under Obama, he is not the cause of it.Frivolous lawsuits?
O Reilly used the word charlatans when discussing that, so he s very likely talking about people suing governments for promoting Christianity, which is illegal under the First Amendment.
Those aren t frivolous, but O Reilly and his white, Christian privilege are mired in a delusion from which there is no escape.If he s talking about regular frivolous lawsuits, then he s way off.
Those have been around forever now.There s too much to really address all of it, but suffice it to say that O Reilly s pursuing a bit of a witch hunt against Obama while talking up Donald Trump.
He should stick to what he s good at oh wait.
That s nothing.
Watch him lose his grip on reality below:Featured image by Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images for The Rumble 2012