There are many, many things I would call Senator Ted Cruz, but a thinking man would never come to mind but apparently, that s exactly how Meghan McCain.During a conversation on Tuesday s episode of Outnumbered on Faux News, Weekly Standard columnist Stephen Hayes commented that he believes Cruz is winning his battle with Donald Trump because the frontrunner is not a true conservative.
And Ted Cruz looks like he just waking up to that fact after having tightly embraced Donald Trump, Hayes said.
I think that s the risk for Cruz even if I agree with him on his substantive critique of Trump.
Host Andrea Tantaros wondered out loud if Cruz has made a mistake by not fighting harder against Senator John MCCain and seven other lawmakers comprehensive immigration bill.
Because, you know, the party of family values must never, ever support a bill that would keep families together.
After Tantaros musings, Meghan McCain made her silly thinking man statement: That s red meat for conservatives in Iowa, Meghan McCain agreed.
What I think is fascinating is Donald Trump was at Liberty University yesterday, Jerry Falwell s school, very religious school obviously.
He quoted Corinthians wrong and now it s become this meme all over the Internet.
Ted Cruz, in many ways, is the thinking man s Donald Trump, she asserted.
He s a religious man that I think a lot of people especially in the hardcore evangelical parts of Iowa can digest as being much more religious.
And I think that s going to play really well for Ted Cruz.
What?First of all, being able to quote the Bible does NOT make him a thinking man, it makes him a parrot.
Secondly, if Ted Cruz were a religious man his policies would be ones that help the poor, accept immigrants, promote peace instead he believes in the exact opposite of all of those things.Meghan McCain used to make some sense when she spoke, but now it seems that the Fox stupidity has seeped into her brain and made her as ignorant as everyone else on that network.Watch the video below:Featured image via video screenshot