Donald Trump fell on his face repeatedly during Sunday night s debate.
Perhaps he was too busy thinking about what President Obama said about him only hours earlier.The Republican nominee is under tremendous fire and his campaign is imploding after some lewd comments about groping women dropped like a bombshell on Friday.
Trump and his team have been scrambling ever since while Republicans have been running as far away as they can from the blast radius.During an event in Chicago in support of Rep. Tammy Duckworth s Senate bid, President Obama finally chimed in on the disgusting remarks, which was perfect timing considering the second presidential debate between Hillary and Trump was only a few hours away from commencing in St. Louis.
One of the most disturbing things about this election is just the unbelievable rhetoric coming at the top of the Republican ticket, Obama said of the remarks.
I don t need to repeat it.
There are children in the room.
President Obama was clearly referencing Trump s 2005 remarks, which included a declaration that he is so famous that he just walks up to women and grabs them by the p*ssy.
Demeaning women, degrading women, but also minorities, immigrants, people of other faiths, mocking the disabled, insulting our troops, insulting our veterans.
That tells you a couple things, Obama continued.
It tells you that he s insecure enough that he pumps himself up by putting other people down not a character trait that I would advise for somebody in the Oval Office.
It tells you that he doesn t care much about the basic values that we try to impart to our kids.
It tells you he d be careless with the civility and the respect that a real, vibrant democracy requires.
Here s the video via CNN:So maybe Donald Trump had a hard time during the debate last night partly because he was seething from being burned by President Obama.
Regardless of why Trump got his ass handed to him on the debate stage again, the fact remains that he is unfit to be president and President Obama perfectly made it clear that insulting a great majority of Americans is the biggest reason to keep Trump out of the White House.America needs a president who respects all of the people, not someone who has disrespected more than half of them.Featured Image: Screenshot