Following a Boston judge s refusal to renew the temporary stay on Trump s Muslim ban, a federal judge in Seattle issued a stay that applies to every port of entry in the entire nation.
That s all the entry points along the northern and southern borders, as well as every airport that has incoming international flights, and anywhere else people enter the U.S.And, of course, the White House is livid, because how dare the judicial branch tell them what they can and cannot do?!
Sean Spicer issued an outraged tweetstorm in response to the judge s order:Statement on WA court ruling: At the earliest possible time, the Department of Justice intends to file an emergency stay of the order (1/5) Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 4, 2017(2/5)and defend the executive order of the President, which we believe is lawful and appropriate.
The president s order is intended to Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 4, 2017(3/6) protect the country and he has the constitutional authority and responsibility to protect the American people.
As the law states, Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 4, 2017(4/6) Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 4, 2017(5/6)to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 4, 2017(6/6)aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on entry of aliens any restrictions may deem 2 b appropriate.
Sean Spicer (@PressSec) February 4, 2017U.S.
Customs and Border Protection has already said that it will reinstate visas from the blacklisted countries, and likewise has already informed airlines of that fact.
This isn t sitting well with an administration that thinks it can do whatever it wants simply because Trump is the president.
White House attorneys even said: Every President over the last thirty years has invoked this authority to suspend or impose restrictions on the entry of certain aliens or classes of aliens, in some instances including classifications based on nationality.
Yeah, no, not like this.
When it was done before, it was done with caution, with extensive counsel, in response to very specific and known threats, and they weren t out-and-out bans.
Trump s order is very broad, did not include much in the way of the necessary consultations, and is not in response to any specific threat.
It s based on paranoid lunacy, actually.
If they re going to invoke history, they should actually go and read history.There s a lawsuit against Trump over this order, and the disparate rulings between Seattle and Boston may well send this case to the Supreme Court.
The Seattle ruling says: The executive order adversely affects the states residents in areas of employment, education, business, family relations and freedom to travel In addition, the States themselves are harmed by virtue of the damage that implementation of the Executive Order has inflicted upon the operations and missions of their public universities and other institutions of higher learning, as well as injury to the States operations, tax bases and public funds.
These harms are significant and ongoing.
But Trump and his minions have no idea how to work within the laws of this land, let alone consider the consequences of anything at all.
He is acting as a despot king, and his clones specifically Sean Spicer and Kellyanne Conway see it the same way to the point where they lie through their teeth and get outraged at anyone they think should blindly follow them for having ideas of their own.Spicer ought to shut his mouth, along with everyone else, and let the big kids handle this.Featured image by Andrew Harrer via Getty Images