Donald Trump is playing a dangerous game by falsely accusing his predecessor of wiretapping his phone lines before the election.
Most people realize when Trump seems unhinged in his Twitter timeline, it s usually to distract the public from what is really going on, such as his scandalous ties to Russia and his new travel ban which remarkably resembles his old travel ban.
Republicans and Democrats are both left scratching their heads over Trump s accusations.Republican Rep. Trey Gowdy (S.C.), who spent two years investigating Hillary Clinton over the attacks in Benghazi, said Monday he s seen no evidence to support Trump s claim that former President Obama wiretapped his office during the presidential campaign.
I don t think the FBI is the Obama team, and I don t think the men and women who are career prosecutors at [the Department of Justice] belong to any team other than a blindfolded woman holding a pair of scales, Gowdy told Politico.
We have the tools to keep us safe and it s prudent for those tools to be used lawfully and appropriately, Gowdy continued.
If they re not used lawfully and appropriately, there s a paper trail and we ll be able to find it out.
Gowdy continued to say that it was hard to cross-examine tweets and any information regarding a FISA warrant used against Trump would be available to the Trump administration.By the way, if a FISA warrant was issued, that would have to be allowed by a judge.
Meaning, in that instance, there would be some sort of evidence against Trump, so much so as to wiretap his phones or at least any calls to and or from Russia.
The Obama team is no longer in charge, Gowdy added.
So any information the current Department of Justice has that suggests the previous Department of Justice acted inappropriately, they are welcome to release it.
But there is no evidence to release.
A sitting president cannot issue a wiretap.
That s not how presidenting works, k?
There is a process to go through first.Even Jason Chaffetz said today that there is no evidence to back up Trump s claim.
Still yet, Chaffetz is willing to investigate Trump s claim while refusing to launch a probe into the alleged president s ties to Russia.Featured image via Alex Wong/Getty Images