In case you have not heard, an addendum to the intelligence report on Russian hacking that was delivered to both President Barack Obama and President-elect Trump has just about something for anyone including a rather hilarious bit involving The Donald, Barack Obama s bed, and pee.
Initial reports surrounding the two-page addendum indicated that a former British spy had obtained a slew of information on Trump including compromising personal and financial information obtained by the Russians during Trump s visits to Moscow, but it was not until Buzzfeed got ahold of the former spy s report that things got interesting.Trump had stayed at a Ritz-Carlton in Moscow, where he was allegedly filmed hiring a number of prostitutes to come to his hotel room and urinate on the bed in front of him..@Buzzfeed published a dossier claiming Trump hired prostitutes to perform a #GoldenShowers show" and now Twitter is a stream of pee jokes: pic.twitter.com/WdHpZ4HzvV Fusion (@Fusion) January 11, 2017According to CNN, who did not report the full details initially because the report has not been fully verified by intelligence agencies as of yet, the information comes from someone who is known by United States intelligence and considered to be credible.
Naturally, legendary actor and constant thorn in Trump s side George Takei couldn t resist the opportunity to have some fun with this:Trump gives a new meaning to "Alfa" male.
#PutinTheFinishingTouches George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017You know, Trump never could pass up a golden opportunity.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017Waiting for Trump to whine about yellow journalism.
Please oh please oh please George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017Tinkle, tinkle, little czar.
Putin put you where you are.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017Sorta gives a whole new meaning to "Wikileaks."
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017Watching Obama's final address, and realizing how very, very far we are about to descend.
Farewell, O Captain my Captain!
Heavens save us.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017I wonder if Trump's press conference tomorrow will have a live stream.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017In all seriousness, if Trump has been compromised by Russia, whatever dirt they have, we need a full and independent investigation.
Now.
George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) January 11, 2017The report sent Trump into a frenzy, with The Donald tweeting an all-caps, panicky denial in which he once again calls information he doesn t like fake news and a total political witch hunt :FAKE NEWS A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2017While it is important to note that the information is still in the early stages of vetting, Trump has been recorded willingly and multiple times admitting that he finds his daughter sexually attractive, so paying some nice Russian ladies to urinate on furniture isn t exactly outside the realm of possibility.
While there is nothing wrong with whatever two consenting adults choose to do behind closed doors as long as no one gets hurt, it was well-known at the time that Russian intelligence was monitoring that hotel, so it probably wasn t the best time and place for a piss-party even if Trump did manage to lock down a bed his arch-nemesis Barack Obama had once slept in for the festivities.The summary handed to Barack Obama warns that Trump has been compromised and if this is the information coming out of it in the early stages, what is to come is likely downright horrifying.Featured image via Getty Images(Kris Connor)/screengrab