In what was supposed to be a celebration of Thanksgiving, one little boy named Caleb in West Virginia was just brought to tears when his teacher ripped away his microphone right before he was about to say what he was supposed to say.According to FOX 10 Phoenix: Children in costumes approach the mic one by one to thank the audience and wish them a happy Thanksgiving.
When it comes time for Caleb to speak, a woman is seen yanking the mic from its stand.
Caleb s mom, Amanda Riddle, said: I left in tears because one teacher Mrs. Linsey I think her name is grabbed the microphone from Caleb and in a mean way.
My son is a little different I know this but his heart is so big and he loves everyone.
What does it matter if he wanted to say gobble gobble he was the turkey after all.
I m sick of kids that are not considered normal be treated the way they are.
According to the Harrison County Schools Superintendent, Dr. Mark Manchin: It s a mistake that was made.
There was no malice.
This teacher, as all of our teachers, truly care about these young boys and girls.
The program was over, at least as I understand, and the teacher had taken the microphone.
However, when looking at the video, it s very clear that the teach wanted to make sure the young child didn t get a chance to say what he wanted to say.
Of course, we don t know the full context of what happened, but any way you look at it, it doesn t look good.
Young Caleb looked as though he was properly participating in the event, and it s doubtful his mother would ve have been upset if it was to be expected from the teacher.Needless to say, we can t treat children with Autism in this regard.
He was dressed up and ready to perform and was stripped of that opportunity, reducing him to tears.Watch here via FOX 10 Phoenix: Caleb s not letting him get it down, though, and is now thanking everyone for their support.
He s also finally sending his message of gobble gobble!
:Happy Thanksgiving, Caleb!Featured image via video screen capture