If you have been vacationing under a rock over the weekend, you might not be aware that Donald Trump Jr. did a naughty.
No, he didn t go out hunting for and killing more defenseless animals to pose with he went hunting for Russians.
Specifically, he went hunting for a Russian lawyer who claimed to have damaging information about Hillary Clinton.
This was an effort to get opposition research on an opponent in an American political campaign from the Russians, who were known to be engaged in spying inside the United States, former Bush ethics lawyer Richard Painter said Sunday of Trump Jr. s meeting.
We do not get our opposition research from spies, we do not collaborate with Russian spies, unless we want to be accused of treason.
If this story is true, we d have one of them if not both of them in custody by now, and we d be asking them a lot of questions, Painter said.
This is unacceptable.
This borders on treason, if it is not itself treason.
Trump Jr. doesn t even bother disputing the truthfulness of the story, saying he did indeed collude with the Russians in hopes of gaining helpful information about his dad s political opponent.
But he says that she had no meaningful information so his engaging in a little light treason is not an issue in the least.
According to Trump Jr., Ivanka Trump s husband Jared Kushner and Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort also attended the meeting.
Trump s son says he had to listen even if the meeting went nowhere :Obviously I'm the first person on a campaign to ever take a meeting to hear info about an opponent went nowhere but had to listen.
https://t.co/ccUjL1KDEa Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) July 10, 2017Unsurprisingly White House spokesmoron Sarah Huckabee Sanders agrees with Trump Jr. that a little collusion with a Kremlin-connected lawyer isn t a hug deal.
In fact, the only real problem is the people who exposed the details, she said during an off-camera press briefing: The only thing I see inappropriate about the meeting was the people that leaked the information on the meeting after it was voluntarily disclosed.
Following the admission and the additional leaked details Trump Jr. left out, he hired a criminal defense attorney because he did absolutely nothing wrong and there s nothing to see here.Where there s smoke there s fire, and there s a lot of very, very Russian smoke enough to suffocate our country if nothing is done about it.Featured image via screengrab