While team Trump is making light of the damage done by former FBI Director James Comey s highly anticipated testimony on Thursday, the public knows that the amateur president s decision to fire the very man leading an investigation into possible collusion and ties between his administration and Russian officials was only to protect himself.
Comey isn t the first official the former reality show star has fired who was leading an investigation into his administration s growing scandal.In fact, a bigly amount of people aren t buying what Trump is selling.
The firing of James Comey shocked the nation because of the timing of it all.According to a new poll, more than 60 percent of Americans think that Trump fired Comey in order to protect himself rather than to help the country.Time Magazine reports:Seven in 10 (72%) Americans don t trust Trump s word on Russia, but 55% also don t buy Comey s likely a reflection of his own past controversies such as Hillary Clinton s email scandal and an overall distrust of the federal government, according to results from an ABC News and Washington Post survey.Only 27% felt that Trump dismissed Comey for the good of country.
A majority of respondents (56%) believe the President is trying to interfere with the Russia probe Comey was supervising prior to his firing.It s not just Democrats, but conservatives, too, who doubt that Trump fired Comey for selfless reasons in order to Make America Great Again.
Even conservatives know that it s about Russia.
In fact, a whopping 60 percent had low trust in regards to what Trump claims about Russia just 33 percent said that they had substantial trust.
That means that Trump is losing his own base.The polls are certainly going to get worse for Trump after voters are polled following the testimony today in which Comey suggested that his termination from the FBI was for nefarious reasons.
Comey has a go-in-alone strategy and he took notes of their meetings after feeling uncomfortable because of Trump s actions.
Comey said he was not made to feel that way by former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush.
But he did feel that way with Trump.Featured image via Win McNamee/Getty Images