If there s anyone in this day and age who most definitely doesn t mince words, and will say what needs to be said, it s Vice President Joe Biden.While speaking in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on a campaign stop for Hillary Clinton, Biden tore into some of the remarks from Monday s debate.
Especially when Donald Trump seemed to think it s perfectly fine to screw over the American people, or benefit from their sorrow.Biden said: This is a guy who said and wants to be president that it was good business for him to see the housing market fail.
What in the hell is he talking about?
Adding: Every president I have served with, including Republicans, has had a moral center about what it was to be an American, about what we re supposed to do, about what basic fundamental rights are.
Then really getting to the core of it, he said: He does not have the basic fundamental sensibilities and values that almost every American politician left, right and center I know have.
They disagree on how to make things better for you, but they don t take pleasure from You re fired.
They don t take pleasure knowing that they will benefit.
Biden also talked about how Trump seems proud of not paying taxes.
Taxes that all of us have to pay and don t have the luxury of manipulating the tax code to our advantage.
He acknowledged that he didn t pay taxes because, he said, he s smart.
Makes him smart.
Tell that to the janitor in here who s paying taxes.
Tell that to your mothers and fathers who are breaking their neck to send you here who are paying their taxes.
No I really mean it.
It angers me.
Biden knows, as we should all know by this point in the election, who the better choice is for Commander-in-Chief.
He reiterates: If this choice isn t clear, I don t know - my lord What bothers me about this race is how palpable his cynicism is about the American people.
And it s true, the choice is abundantly clear Hillary Rodham Clinton should and will be our next president.Watch Biden lay into Trump here:WATCH: VP Biden goes off on Trump over Trump s comments about not paying taxes: It angers me!
What in the hell is he talking about!?
pic.twitter.com/Qg5L5HcnvL NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) September 27, 2016Featured image via video screen capture