Donald Trump has disgraced the United States and made the country s White House an absolute circus but he s not done ruining things yet.
Apparently, the election of Trump is also going to ruin Disney World.According to a report by Motherboard, the Imagineers at Disney World are having a meltdown over having to add this illegitimate president to the Hall of Presidents.
Every single POTUS has been added to this feature in Disney World, and now they re faced with a truly awful 45th president that does not deserve to stand beside the others, but must be included to follow tradition.Since 1993, several of the animatronic presidents have had speaking parts in the hall s presentation, which includes a history lesson and music.
This presents a unique problem for the people tasked with making the Trump robot what should a POTUS with the vocabulary and speech patterns of a 5-year-old say?
Surely, anything that comes out of Trump s mouth is going to stick out like a sore thumb compared to his wiser, more competent predecessors.The people at Disney have been torn up about this, but Motherboard reports that they ve decided to add him, under the conditions that he doesn t say a damn word.
Motherboard wrote: Motherboard spoke via email and phone to a source close to Walt Disney Imagineering the research and development department behind Disney s theme park attractions.
And according to the source, Donald Trump will be in the attraction, but he will probably not have a speaking role, unlike the three presidents immediately before him.
The Imagineers will likely revert the attraction to its pre-1993 format, where the current president does not speak, while keeping the more realistic, grounded tone of the current show.
Apparently, Disney World is also acknowledging the fact that Trump might not be in the White House much longer.
Motherboard stated: Given President Trump s current problems, Walt Disney World might elect to push the attraction s opening date back to the fall and then make further tweaks to the show.
Featured image is a screenshot