Republican presidential candidate Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) said it was terrible that the sailors detained by Iran were videotaped putting their hands up and surrendering.
But now Cruz is using that same footage shot by Iran in a new campaign ad.The ad, Have Your Back, uses the footage of U.S. Navy sailors created by the Iranian regime as a backdrop for a promise from Cruz to stand up for them if he is elected president.But if Cruz believes the video is enemy propaganda, why use it in a crass television commercial?It once again hollows out the conservative message that they are the one, true, source of support for the military between the Democratic and Republican parties.The ad also reminds voters just how wrong Cruz was about the initial capture of the sailors.
As the situation unfolded, Cruz ran to conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt to complain that the incident showed weakness on behalf of the Obama administration.
Our prayers right now are with the sailors and with the families of the sailors, Cruz told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt on Tuesday night.
I think what the president should say is that the sailors are coming home and they re coming home right now.
Cruz continued: Now, I don t know that he will say that, and the fact that Iran feels emboldened enough to capture two U.S. Navy ships and to take 10 sailors into custody is really a demonstration of the unbelievable weakness of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy.
We have a Commander-in-Chief where the bad actors of the world have learned that he will not stand up to them.
Remember this is the same Barack Obama who is trying to send Iran 150 billion dollars.
A few hours after Cruz stamped and whined his rhetorical feet, the sailors were free.
Not because Obama followed the lead of Cruz and other Republicans with a bellicose posture towards Iran, but because the Obama administration has opened up lines of diplomacy between the two countries lines needed in order to avoid conflict.
The sailors were home without a single shot fired, without an American put in harms way or an innocent Iranian civilian having to suffer.While Obama was bringing the soldiers home safely, Ted Cruz s ad men were analyzing the situation and looking at the optics for the best way to position their right-wing candidate.Featured image via YouTube