Donald Trump reverted to his usual grouchy, unlikable self in another Twitter meltdown on Saturday, ripping into both Maureen Dowd of The New York Times and the paper itself.
Dowd told CNN that Trump once told her that the violence at his rallies adds excitement, and the Times ran a separate piece on the nearly $1 billion in tax breaks Trump s real estate empire got from the State of New York.
Both seem to have hurt Trump s widdle feewings.In this latest meltdown of his, he posted the following tweet:My lawyers want to sue the failing @nytimes so badly for irresponsible intent.
I said no (for now), but they are watching.
Really disgusting Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 17, 2016That s a load of hogwash if there ever was one.
First off, irresponsible intent isn t a crime and his lawyers ought to know that (if they don t, they re terrible lawyers).
This is something that Trump himself just made up to sound smart.Besides, if it were a crime he likely would have been locked up for all eternity already.Secondly, Trump is sue-happy to the point that he often gets what he wants in business simply by threatening to sue those who don t do what he wants.
He hates the press and has banned outlets from his rallies, in addition to saying he ll open up libel laws after he s elected so that we can sue the media and win lots of money.
This also isn t the first time Trump s lawyers have threatened to sue the Times.
Earlier this year, the Times ran a story with quotes from an old girlfriend, who later claimed they misrepresented her badly.
For its part, the Times issued a statement saying she was quoted accurately, fairly, and at length.
Trump s lawyers withdrew their lawsuit threat.So it s not especially likely that Trump doesn t want his lawyers to sue now it s more likely that tweet is a showy lie.
He wants to make the threat, but he might want to make it look like he s got hard-hitting lawyers that are somewhat roguish, whom he has to rein in.
He s conniving and his image is everything.
This might make him look like he s in control.As for us, we can see right through him.Featured image by Joe Raedle/Getty Images