During a recent appearance on Good Morning Britain, Donald Trump made several claims about Muslims that are, perhaps unsurprisingly to most people, completely bogus.
During the interview, Trump claimed that one of the biggest challenges in the fight against terrorism is that good Muslims are withholding information about terrorist plots.
It s like they re protecting each other, Trump said during the interview.
They have to report the bad ones.
And if you report the bad ones, then all of a sudden you re not going to have the problems.
Here s the interview:This statement does not hold up to empirical evidence.
Muslims do in fact quit often turn in radical extremists.
Vox reports: In 2014, University of North Carolina sociologist Charles Kurzman identified 188 cases since 9/11 where the police had publicly identified a Muslim American as a suspected terrorist and disclosed where the initial tip came from.
Of those 188, 54 individuals were brought to the government s attention via tips from members of the Muslim-American community.
Muslim Americans were the single largest source of tips identified in Kurzman s study.
To further illustrate the stupidity of Trump s claims, let s look at some other facts.
Trump is implying that it is the Muslim population s responsibility to report problems to the authorities.
By doing so he is placing responsibility for the actions of terrorists on Muslim communities shoulders.There are approximately 1.6 billion Muslims in the world.
That s about 23% of the world s entire population.
Only about 3.3 million Muslims lives in the United States.
During this interview, and for the entirety of his campaign, Trump has been using nearly a quarter of the world s population as a political scapegoat.
The reality is that the Islamic State and other terror groups are followers of Salafi Jihadism.
They are a relatively tiny cult of extremists, that mainly live in concentrated geographic regions.The chance that a Muslim person would actually know a Jihadist is pretty slim.
The odds that they might stumble upon information about a possible terror plot is even slimmer.
When we take that into account, and we look at the number of tips that come from Muslims about possible terror attacks since 9/11 it becomes quite clear that Muslims do almost always turn in information regarding possible terrorist activities when they come across it and they know what they have come across.It s almost as if Muslims almost always do the reasonable thing that anyone would do if they were in that situation.Of course, none of this will probably matter to Trump or his followers.
If he says he saw a video of Muslims cheering in New Jersey after 9/11, that s what they saw too.
Featured image from video screenshot