PRESIDENT TRUMP AND FIRST LADY MELANIA TRUMP ATTENDED CHRISTMAS EVE CHURCH SERVICES:The Trumps arrive at Bethesda by the Sea church, where they were married, for Christmas Eve service pic.twitter.com/PZfXNcDDJy Jennifer Epstein (@jeneps) December 25, 2017A CLOSER LOOK AT THE ARRIVAL: The President and First Lady arrived at The Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea in Palm Beach, FL earlier for Christmas Eve service.
PO-56SU pic.twitter.com/b4wHqjBBl6 CNN Newsource (@CNNNewsource) December 25, 2017 DAN SCAVINO TWEETED OUT AN INSIDE LOOK AT THE CHURCH:President @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS Melania Trump are greeted by stand ovation and cheers upon their arrival to attend Christmas Eve church services, tonight, at The Episcopal Church of Bethesda-by-the-Sea in Palm Beach, Florida.
#ChristmasEve2017 pic.twitter.com/DwKVMZtnvn Dan Scavino Jr. (@Scavino45) December 25, 2017 THE POOL REPORT:President Trump departed the Episcopal Church of Bethesda-by-the-sea at 12:19The president was seated in the third row in the spot closest to the aisle, on the right side of the church (if youre in the back looking toward the altar).
The First Lady was the only member of the presidents family to attend mass with him.Reverend James Harlan, the churchs rector, gave the homily.
It centered around the themes of the power of words and Gods light.
He began by quoting Nelson Mandela, whom he noted rebelled against his government for its systemic oppression.The Mandela quote: It is never my custom to use words lightly.
If 27 years in prison have done anything to us, it was to use the silence of solitude to make us understand how precious words are and how real speech is in its impact on the way people live and die.
Harlan connected the power of words especially as it pertains to Gods word to their ability to educate, enlighten and draw out the best in people, while he also cautioned words can be used to cause harm.Your words can have as much destructive potential as they do healing, Harlan said.
Gods word is pure light.A crowd of people encircled the president to shake his hand when it came time for the peace-be-with-yous.
The churchs live stream cut to another angle once the president stood up to take communion.
Once it cut back, the president was standing in his pew, and appeared to be holding the communion, which he then took.Songs:* God rest ye merry gentlemen * O come let us adore him