You know how everyone suspected that there would be some quid pro quo for all the help Vladimir Putin gave Donald Trump during the election?
Well, it s happening.On Thursday, Donald Trump lifted sanctions imposed by President Obama that prevented Putin from cyberspying.
The sanctions were a response to Putin s team of hackers doing Trump a series of favors by hacking his political opponents and releasing any and all information they could that could assist him in becoming President.
Reuters reports:The Treasury Department said in a statement it would allow U.S. companies to make limited transactions with the intelligence service that are needed to gain approval to import information technology products into Russia.The broader significance of the sanctions exemptions were not immediately clear.
The Treasury Department often issues general licenses such as the one announced on Thursday to help U.S. companies overcome unintended business consequences of sanctions.U.S.
intelligence agencies accused the FSB of involvement in hacking of Democratic organizations during the election, won by Republican Donald Trump.The agencies and private cyber security experts concluded the FSB first broke into the Democratic National Committee s computer system in the summer of 2015 and began monitoring email and chat conversations.They say FSB was one of two Russian spy agencies believed to have been involved in a wide-ranging operation by top-ranking individuals in Russia s government to discredit Democrat Hillary Clinton and help Trump win the election.When Obama imposed the sanctions, Vladimir Putin announced that he would wait to respond until after Trump became President because he expected a response that favors him.
This move was just the first of many we can expect to benefit Vladimir Putin.
This is the same group (FSB) that, just a month ago, our intelligence community determined was responsible for the attack on our democracy, Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif., ranking member of a House CIA subcommittee, said in response to Trump rewarding Putin for his help during the election.
We just made it easier for the same group to import into Russia the tools they could use to hack us or our allies again.
Naturally, Americans are not happy with this new development:Riddle me this Batman, how is lifting sanctions against Russia not a change in policy?
Dragonrider (@StHsg) February 2, 2017Spicer just said Trump "creating carve outs" in Russia sanctions is not Trump "rolling back sanctions."Un.
Real.
Corey Ciorciari (@CoreyCiorciari) February 2, 2017Treasury dept posted letter to ease sanctions on Russia.
@seanspicer says it isn't!
Dude, we can read!
#alternativefacts Pamela Baxter (@BaxterPamela) February 2, 2017.
@PressSec Yes, Treasury eased sanctions on Russia, but that's not really easing sanctions on Russia.
It's complicated,don't worry about it.
Spinoza (@azon1ps) February 2, 2017No, this is not normal for the Treasury department to ease sanctions with Russia.
Jesus Spicer is such a tool.
Amy (@bunnyhugger75) February 2, 2017Spicer "were not easing sanctions" then goes on to say they are reviewing the sanctions on Russia to see what they will keep.
LOL Don The Con (@LyinDonTheCon) February 2, 2017@PeterAlexander I wish HRC would've warned us about Trump being a potential puppet regime.
vin (@vin_esposito) February 2, 2017@PeterAlexander @mattdpearce threaten our closest allies ease Russian sanctions in the 1st month.
Makes sense.
MW (@MDub79) February 2, 2017@PeterAlexander We piss off fucking australia and already begin spooning russia.
What the fuck Manny (@Manny__42) February 2, 2017Not just any sanctions: Trump appears to have lifted the very sanctions put in place to limit Russia's purchase of equipment to spy on U.S. https://t.co/ucHKivaoCR Caroline O.
(@RVAwonk) February 2, 2017Sean Spicer: "We're not easing sanctions on Russia" pic.twitter.com/Jtcb2yJ4CM Hanna (@hannanekoranec) February 2, 2017@tedlieuImpeach him for fucks sake!!!
Cowboy from Hell (@pjbruno79) February 2, 2017when you scream at Australia and lift sanctions on Russia, you're making it clear you're on the side of authoritarian nationalist states.
Dante Atkins (@DanteAtkins) February 2, 2017#Trump s golden shower movies paying off for Putin als US treasury relaxes sanctions on Russia ThaiMythbuster (@thaimythbuster) February 2, 2017Did anybody notice how fast @PressSec wanted to push past the easing of sanctions on Russia pic.twitter.com/ZqvbVrjS46 Roentgens (@roentgens9) February 2, 2017Even though Trump eased sanctions, White House Press Secretary says that we are not easing sanctions against Russia screw reality!
Spicer says that easing sanctions which is totally not what just happened is a regular course of action with regard to hostile dictatorships who commit cyberattacks against our country and interfere with our elections.In just two weeks, Donald Trump has diverted taxpayer funds to build his stupid wall, created an international incident with Australia (the cuddly teddy bear of diplomacy and our strongest ally), threatened to invade Mexico and Chicago, enacted his Muslim ban, stripped federal funding from international health organizations that so much as mention abortion, and rewarded a hostile nation for helping him win the presidency.We re completely f*cked if we don t do something to get this orange buffoon out of office.Watch Spicer dance around the huge favor Trump just did for Russia below:Featured image via Getty Images/Nicholas Kamm