Donald Trump likes feuds.
He cannot, for any reason, take criticism, so the second someone says something less than a million percent complimentary about him, Trump has to lash out.
His latest target is a union leader for Carrier, the company that Trump has been boasting about all over the place because he supposedly saved bunches of jobs.
However, Trump inflated the numbers, and, worst of all, left out the problematic nature of the deal, which included $7 million in tax cuts for the company in exchange for keeping the jobs in the United States.Chuck Jones, the leader of the union for the workers at that Indiana plant, said that Trump, quote, lied his ass off, about the deal, including the number of jobs saved.
Well, this led Trump to attack Jones via Twitter, and voila!
A new Trump feud is born.
Now, as if it weren t bad enough that Trump himself is acting like a spoiled child rather than the president-elect, Republican National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer is also joining in the dog piling on Jones.
On Thursday, Spicer went on Fox News and said the following of Jones: He should be grateful for Mr. Trump and [Republican Indiana] Gov.
[Mike] Pence s efforts to save those jobs.
Here you have a guy that talked about Carrier and the importance of keeping jobs.
He picks up the phone and closes a deal.
You ve got a 1,000 people that are going to have a blessed holiday season that are not worried about jobs.
They get to spend this time with family and friends knowing that they have a job with good benefits.
That s something that should be celebrated.
No, Trump s lies should not be celebrated, Mr. Spicer.
Were SOME jobs saved?
Sure.
But the method by which they were saved is not a sustainable one, and it is costing Indiana taxpayers you know, the folks Trump keeps promising to help millions.
Further, it s not Chuck Jones who lied.
It s Donald Trump.
Splicer insisted that it was Jones lying about Trump, though: And then you ve got a union boss that goes out and fabricates how the story went down for no reason.
I think Mr. Trump is never going to sit back and let someone take a shot falsely at him without responding.
This is the problem with Trump cronies and mouthpieces.
They swallow every outrage, every lie, as if none of it matters.
They refuse to see the very grave shortcomings of their Cheeto Jesus, and they fall in lockstep no matter how insane his behavior becomes.Look forward to four years of not just Trump acting like a whiny, narcissistic baby, but, apparently, he ll have the might of the entire GOP behind him doing the same.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images