Modern day culture is far from what it used to be.
Technology has taken over human contact and conversation, and people are seemingly forgetting what it s like the actually speak with a person who is directly in front of them.
This forgetfulness can also be seen in the depths of Twitter as trolls seem to feel they can say anything to anyone at any time with no remorse for their actions or words because there is no human face attached to who they are attacking.A great example of this lack of human interaction experience occurred after Jennifer Lawrence won her Golden Globe for her performance in Joy.
In what some people are calling rude, the actress was just being brutally honest and some people forget what it s like to point something out to someone s face.
In actuality, the person who was being rude was a particular reporter who was asking Lawrence a question surrounding her win.The reporter begins to ask Lawrence a question, but the Oscar winner quickly cuts him off and says: You can t live your whole life behind your phone, bro You can t do that.
You ve got to live in the now.
You know?
The reporter continuing on, mentioned the Oscars, so Lawrence, being the quit-witted person that she is, drove home her point: We re at the Golden Globes.
If you put your phone down, you d know that.
Now, to the people calling Lawrence rude Really?
She was clearly giving that reporter her undivided attention and was making herself available to answer his question, and he was still staring at his phone.
So, who was rude?
It certainly wasn t Lawrence for pointing it out.If you go back and watch the Golden Globes during the part when Amy Schumer and Jennifer Lawrence were announcing each other s films, you can see that there was a jab at people using their phones then, too.We ve become a culture all too reliant on our cell phones and technology that we ve forgotten basic human interaction skills, better known as social skills.
Don t call someone rude for pointing out rude behavior.
Take what they are saying to heart, understand why it may offend you, because you may be just as guilty, and remember that human beings should, in fact, have human interaction without technology getting in the way.Lawrence perfectly points out what s wrong with modern-day life, and kudos to her for doing so.
We all need to live in the now.
Life is happening before our very eyes if we make the decision to look up from our mobile devices.
Jennifer Lawrence calls out a reporter for not looking up from his phone.
#GoldenGlobes #backstage https://t.co/anWeQCsIL6 Variety (@Variety) January 11, 2016 Video/Featured image: Twitter