Dozens of Republicans walked out of a meeting being held in the Capitol basement on Thursday after one of their fellow conservatives suggested that they d sinned by supporting a proposal to protect the LGBT community from discrimination.The bill was focused about government spending, but contained an added provision that read: Nothing in the underlying spending bills can undermine President Obama s executive order barring discrimination by government contractors based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
Many Republican congressmen had actually been in support of this provision, which was unbearable to a bigot like Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA).
Incapable of accepting the fact that LGBT individuals should have the same protections that the rest of the American population is afforded, Allen tried to make the congressmen change their minds about backing the anti-discrimination proposal through one of the GOP s favorite tactics: shame.
Allen decided to accomplish this by reading a Bible verse that condemned homosexuality, emphasizing that anyone who was pro-LGBT and supported the proposal were opposing Christianity .
Completely shocked and disgusted by what one of their own fellow conservatives had done, the Bible reading disturbed the meeting and prompted an epic walkout by dozens of Republicans.After storming out of the meeting, one anonymous Republican that was in attendance vented about Allen and told The Hill, It was f*cking ridiculous.
An aide noted that, A lot of members were clearly uncomfortable and upset.
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi also spoke on the incident, saying: House Republicans thirst to discriminate against the LGBT community is so strong that they are willing to vote down their own appropriations bill in order to prevent progress over bigotry.
This incident truly proves just how important bigotry and denying people their human rights is to the GOP.
It s a party that is clearly incapable of moving forward to modern times, even as some members of their party denounce the old school hateful rhetoric.
Republicans like Allen represent the worst of conservatives, and are willing to shame their own in order to block this country from moving forward.
We may not like what the Republican party stands for, but the GOPers who voted for LGBT equality and turned their backs on a fellow conservative s hateful rhetoric ought to be commended.
Hopefully Allen will learn something from this.Featured image is a screenshot