Donald Trump has been obsessed with the fact that he lost the popular vote to Hillary Clinton ever since the election results came in.
Not satisfied with the Electoral College victory that handed him the White House, Trump has continued to double and triple down on an insane and unsubstantiated conspiracy theory that massive voter fraud is what cost him the popular vote.Well now, with the power of the presidency behind him, Trump has taken a terrifying step: Saying he will open a major investigation into the 2016 election.
He also seems to be laying the groundwork for even more voter suppression and disenfranchisement of voters who are least likely to vote for him.
He tweeted early Wednesday morning of his plans:I will be asking for a major investigation into VOTER FRAUD, including those registered to vote in two states, those who are illegal and .
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017even, those registered to vote who are dead (and many for a long time).
Depending on results, we will strengthen up voting procedures!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2017What makes this even more disturbing is that Trump s Attorney General pick, Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions, has a long and storied history of opposing civil rights, and specifically voting rights.
This is just a way for Republicans to sow discord and deny facts, and to help assuage Trump s ego by allowing him to make himself feel better in this new world of alternative facts, that White House counsel Kellyanne Conway infamously pushed on Sunday.This is dangerous beyond anything we ever could have imagined.
We have a conspiracy theorist as president, who also happens to be a narcissistic madman who cannot accept the truth.
Even worse, he has people around him who are defending his antics, and who are perfectly willing to lie to the American people about the most trivial of matters.
If they ll lie about this, what else will they lie about?This administration is a threat to our democracy.
Regardless of political ideology, it has to be concluded that Trump is undermining the fabric of our republic before our very eyes.Featured image via Drew Angerer/Getty Images