If the way Donald Trump reportedly ran the Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach is any indication, if he wins, he will be taking full advantage of every spy agency in his charge, just for his own agenda.According to six former employees at the resort, Trump had a telephone console in his room that allowed him to tap into every single phone in the place.
He often listened in on staff calls, but he could also listen in on guest calls, although the GOP frontrunner s spokeswoman denies it.According to Buzzfeed, who spoke to six former employees, four of whom spoke under the condition of anonymity because of non-disclosure agreements, this is indeed true.
Those four said he listened in, from the private room he keeps, during the mid-2000s.They said he listened in on calls between club employees or, in some cases, between staff and guests.
None of them knew of Trump eavesdropping on guests or members talking on private calls with people who were not employees of Mar-a-Lago.
They also said that Trump could eavesdrop only on calls made on the club s landlines and not on calls made from guests cell phones.Each of these four sources said they personally saw the telephone console, which some referred to as a switchboard, in Trump s bedroom.None of the four supports Trump s bid for president.
All said they enjoyed their time working at Mar-a-Lago.The two other employees did not wish to remain anonymous.
They are Trump s former butler (the one who wants Obama killed) and Trump s former security director, both of whom support Trump s run for president, said that the console was only to make phone calls.Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, is running at a time when Americans are increasingly concerned about surveillance both by the government and by their employers.
Some of his own campaign staff feared that their offices in Trump Tower in New York might be bugged, the New York Times reported last month.
Trump has backed the NSA s bulk collection of metadata, telling conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt that I tend to err on the side of security.
Trump added, I assume when I pick up my telephone people are listening to my conversations anyway, if you want to know the truth.
If Trump was listening in on guests calls, that was certainly a violation of Florida law.
The law is less clear on calls involving employees, but since both parties in Florida need to be notified, if the second party is not an employee, that is legally murky at best.This accusation is frightening.
I have always been of the opinion that Trump is running for the job of dictator, hence his admiration of Putin and Kim Jong Un.
This does not bode well.
All I can say is I hope Hillary Clinton s offices are locked down tight or we ll have another Watergate on our hands.Featured image via John Moore at Getty Images.