While Donald Trump is back peddling on several of his campaign promises, like the wall, repealing Obamacare, prosecuting Hillary Clinton and his Muslim ban, in an interview on 60 Minutes, Trump vowed that he would immediately institute one of his worst promises.
He claimed he ll start deporting undocumented residents right away, but it s okay because it s only the criminals.
What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers, where a lot of these people, probably 2 million, it could be even 3 million, we are getting them out of our country or we are going to incarcerate, Trump told 60 Minutes correspondent Lesley Stahl, according to a preview of the interview released by CBS.
But we re getting them out of our country.
They re here illegally.
As for the rest of the undocumented immigrants: After the border is secure and after everything gets normalized, we re going to make a determination on the people that they re talking about who are terrific people.
They re terrific people, but we are gonna make a determination at that, Trump said.
But before we make that determination it s very important, we are going to secure our border.
The Washington Post notes that the Department of Homeland Security, in 2013, said there were about 1.9 million removable criminal aliens.
That number is not just about people who are here illegally.
Many are here lawfully, but have broken the law.Regardless, there are some major civil rights and logistical problems, including how do we figure out exactly who has committed crimes?
It s not like they re just sitting in jail.Robert Reich asks this:Out of an estimated population of 11 million undocumented immigrants, how exactly will the government identify these people?
Will there be wholesale roundups and interrogations?
Anyone who looks Latino stopped and identity checked?
Anonymous accusations to government agents of gang membership or drug dealing?
And what is the responsibility of the rest of us including those of us living in sanctuary cities to stop such abuses?Despite Trump s assertions that immigrants are criminals and rapists, they, by and large, aren t. Undocumented immigrants, for pretty obvious reasons (they don t want to attract the attention of the law) stay out of trouble.
In several studies quoted by the conservative Wall Street Journal, immigrants are less likely to commit crimes and less likely to be locked up for crimes.
It s not just well-educated immigrants working in Silicon Valley who stay out of trouble.
It s immigrants from Latin American countries as well.Despite the fact that immigrants as criminals is just a red herring, and the real immigration problem is the fact that employers hire undocumented workers, this will put a lot of people s lives in danger.
Trump has given his tacit permission for his voters to become vigilante warriors.
Hate crimes are already up and Trump has done nothing to denounce them, let alone quell them.Featured image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images