***WARNING***Video is disturbing**** What is even more disturbing is that Hillary s Campaign Chairman and closest advisor was invited to partake in this event by his brother.
These people are off the charts bizarre and sick In perhaps the most disturbing Wikileaks release to date, Tony Podesta (John Podesta s brother) is invited to a Spirit Cooking dinner with performance artist Marina Abramovic.Dinner with a famous artist might sound deeply mundane, but there is far more to this story.Abramovic, 69, is a fairly famous Serbian performance artist, who now lives in New York.In an email dated June 28, 2015, Abramovic wrote:Here s a video showing Marina Abramovic mixing vat of what appears to be concealed blood with fresh breast milk and fresh semen to drink on earthquake nights Keep in mind, these are the same Podesta brothers responsible for helping Hillary to obtain up to $25 million in donations from Saudi Arabia.Abramovic is known for her often-gory art that confronts pain and ritual.
Her first performance involved repeatedly, stabbing herself in her hands.
The next performance featured her throwing her nails, toenails, and hair into a flaming five-point star which she eventually jumped inside of, causing her to lose consciousness.
During the next, she ingested a medication to treat people who are catatonic, which caused violent muscle spasms.Perhaps most famously, in 1974, Abramovic placed 72 objects on a table, including a rose, a feather, honey, a whip, olive oil, scissors, a scalpel and a gun and a single bullet.
Alongside the items was a sign informing the audience that the items could be used on her in any way that they chose.For six hours, she remained at the mercy of the audience, allowing them to do as they pleased.
During that time, she was stripped, cut, and one audience member even held the gun to her head.
What I learned was that if you leave it up to the audience, they can kill you.
I felt really violated: they cut up my clothes, stuck rose thorns in my stomach, one person aimed the gun at my head, and another took it away.
It created an aggressive atmosphere.
After exactly 6 hours, as planned, I stood up and started walking toward the audience.
Everyone ran away, to escape an actual confrontation, she later said of the performance.
wearechange.orgIt will probably come as no surprise to see Hillary supporter, Lady Gaga partaking in such a disgusting and gruesome event: https://twitter.com/WDFx2EU7/status/794530179267727360She s with Hillary: