On Wednesday, GOP Rep. Kevin Cramer opened his mouth and inserted his foot so deep that the nation s top doctors will still be trying to remove it when he inevitably loses his next election in a landslide.
According to Cramer, Sean Spicer was kinda right when he presented some alternative facts regarding the Holocaust specifically, his claim that Adolf Hitler didn t use chemical weapons (not even in concentration camps or, as Spicer calls them, Holocaust centers.
The media is so gullible, they fall for these things because they think it s really hot stuff and the public just can t wait to stick it to Sean Spicer who 99% of the people wouldn t have the foggiest idea who he is and it distracts them from other things, Cramer told conservative radio North Dakota radio host Scott Hennen.
I can t even believe that anybody in the media, much less all of the major networks, led with this story.
A spokesperson, who by the way made a poor illustration, but it s not completely, it s not without some validity.
I think he apologized and that s the end of it, Cramer said, as though denying the Holocaust can be fixed with a fauxpology.
I think what he was saying is that Hitler didn t take chemical weapons out in a battle-like form and do what Assad did with these children.
It s a factual statement, Cramer says.What Spicer actually said was that Adolf Hitler didn t use chemical weapons, which makes him better than Assad: We didn t use chemical weapons in World War II.
You had a, someone who is as despicable as Hitler who didn t even sink to using chemical weapons.
He later explained that he acknowledges that Hitler took Jewish people to Holocaust centers but that Hitler was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing.
How are people responding to this?
Well, let s just say that the Sean Spicer was right that Hitler was a good dude compared to Assad strategy isn t working out for him:North Dakota Rep. Kevin Cramer is a full blown idiot.
Or a Nazi.
Or both.
Pinder Binder (@PinderBinder) April 13, 2017Me: I don't think anyone can top Sean Spicer.Kevin Cramer: hold my be .Me: NO!
I'm already holding Spicer's & United's & Pepsi's.
https://t.co/nCDjwpKY4p Matt Baldwin (@mattycantfail) April 13, 2017@CNNPolitics Missed Germans developed nerve gas and basic World History in high school did you @kevincramer Meg Yarbrough (@meg_yarbrough) April 13, 2017@CNN @kevincramer what in the ever-loving hell is wrong with you?
You do not belong in a position of leadership.
Tara Jepsen (@captaindingbat) April 12, 2017Everyone, please join me in faxing images of Hitler's gas chambers to Holocaust denying Rep. Kevin Cramer.
https://t.co/DyUWVIhmmZ pic.twitter.com/4brVQxOxoM taylor h. brogan (@thbrogan) April 12, 2017It s not very often you get to see someone dig his own grave, but Cramer did just that.
Remember his name, folks in North DakotaFeatured image via screengrab