Hillary Clinton continued her overseas trashing of our president with her latest claim that former President Bush said some rude things about the ceremony.
She s so bitter that it s embarrassing.
She s the poster child for what a liberal elitist pig looks like.
Check out this video of Clinton describing how she tried to get out of going to the inauguration:Can you believe this hateful woman?
She claims that after other former presidents announced they were going that he and Bill looked at each other and said, Well, we gotta go .Clinton continued to insinuate that the elder Bush might not have been sick but just didn t want to go to the inauguration.
Then she said the rudest thing of all: It was reported George W. Bush said, That was some weird shit, The crowd roared with laughter What a shame that former First Lady Hillary Clinton would stoop so low.
But we have come to expect low budget moves from the Clinton grifters who will do just about anything for a buck.
It has also been reported that Hillary has a nasty mouth and treated others poorly during her time in the White House and as Secretary of State under Obama.Remember how Elizabeth Warren called liberal women Nasty women during the 2016 campaign?
Well, we think we found the queen of nasty women in Hillary Clinton.OUR LATEST ON THE CLINTON OVERSEAS BOOK TOUR THAT S BEEN A TOTAL FLOP: Hillary Clinton got a dose of boos and heckles while hawking her book overseas.
Protesters greeted her at her latest event:Around 20 protestors unhappy at Hillary Clinton's visit to Swansea University.They heckle attendees: "Search your conscience boycott it" pic.twitter.com/p9ZiKvr9QJ Adam Hale (@AdamRHale) October 14, 2017She likes to say President Trump is damaging U.S. relations across the globe, but if the reception she received in Britain on Saturday is any indication, she wouldn t have done any better.She s overseas promoting her book, What Happened, where she blames Russia, the FBI, female voters and a myriad of others for her loss to Trump last November.As Clinton visited Swansea University to collect an honor, a woman told Hillary, Bernie would have won.
OUCH!
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10'; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));Welsh woman meets Hillary Clinton.
Tells her 'Bernie would have won' and 'Only you could lose to Trump'#HillaryClinton #donaldtrump #berniesanders #swanseaPosted by Nye Bevan News on Saturday, October 14, 2017Her assistant even got jeers as she entered the venue for the event.
As Hillary emerged from her Mercedes, she got a mix of cheers and boos:Hillary Clinton arrives at Swansea University to a mix of cheers and boos ahead of receiving her honorary award pic.twitter.com/v0Ay3SlKQu Adam Hale (@AdamRHale) October 14, 2017It s pretty pitiful that she was given an award for human rights when she singlehandedly turned the Middle East into an even worse place for its citizens with terrorism and chaos.SHE APPEARED ON BRITISH TV TO BE INTERVIEWED AND WAS ASKED IF SHE S STILL BLAMING EVERYONE BUT HERSELF FOR THE ELECTION LOSS: Your dynastic appeal or perhaps it was the opposite: The fact that you were called Clinton the fact that you were first lady basically trumped any novelty if you forgive the term of being the first female president of the United States, he said.
People looked at your name and your legacy more than they looked at your gender.
Clinton answered in her usual delusional way by laying out the amount of support she THINKS she received and then blaming former FBI director James Comey and the Russians for her defeat: That doesn t explain why I led all the way through, why I won the primary by 4 million votes, why I was winning, we had a great convention, she said.
I was thought to have won all three debates.
That doesn t explain it, Matt, so that s why I had to really dig deep.
And, yes, I take responsibility.
Obviously, there were things I must have been able to do differently in order to have won, Clinton continued.
But at the end, there was this really perfect storm, and so you had the Comey letter and you had the enormous impact of the Russian theft of emails, the release of them by WikiLeaks, basically now a part of the Russian intelligence apparatus, and the weaponization of that.
These were all new phenomena.
So you re still blaming others more than yourself?
Frei asked I DON T BLAME OTHERS ???
No, I take ultimate responsibility, I don t blame others, but I think it s important that people understand what happened, Clinton said.
It easy to say, You know she wasn t a good candidate.
Then why did lead all the way to the end, why did I get nominated overwhelmingly?
Did people lie at the polls?
Frei interjected.
No, I think there were intervening events that caused people to worry, to have second thoughts, she said.Read more: WFB