Comedian Denis Leary has donated a lot of his own time and money to helping the victims of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the first-responders who risked it all to come to their aid.It s been nearly 15 years since the World Trade Center Twin Towers fell, and Leary still attends memorials on the anniversary of the tragedy that killed nearly 3,000 people that day.
And one person he has never seen at a memorial is Donald Trump, who has exploited 9/11 repeatedly for political gain throughout his bid to become the Republican Party nominee.And his effort paid off because conservatives across the country bought the bullshit Trump was selling them.As the Daily Beast points out, Trump s biggest claim about 9/11 is that thousands of American Muslims were seen celebrating and cheering as the attacks unfolded.
However, that claim has been thoroughly debunked.
But Trump s supporters don t care, and they still believe Trump rather than acknowledge the actual facts.Trump has also claimed that he personally witnessed people jumping to their deaths from the towers even though he was four miles away at the time.
Trump did all this despite referring to the Twin Towers as not great buildings a week after 9/11, making zero donations to 9/11 charities as of 2015, and visiting the 9/11 Memorial for the very first time to curry favor on the eve of the New York presidential primary, four and a half years after it was erected, the Daily Beast reports.Trump has used fear and bigotry throughout his campaign to cast Muslims as an evil group hell-bent on destroying America and 9/11 is a central talking-point in that effort.
For the most part, Trump has succeeded by appealing to the hate and racism of conservatives who have flocked to his campaign out of the belief that Muslims are a threat to the United States and that only Trump can prevent our destruction.
And that makes Denis Leary sick, so he wasted no time in ripping Trump to pieces during a recent interview.
I think he ll basically do anything to get the spotlight, Leary told the Daily Beast.
Trump will take advantage of whatever the situation, the cause, or the event might be.
Where was he before this?
I ve been downtown forever and been to a lot of 9/11 Memorial events the 5th anniversary, the 10th anniversary, others and I don t remember seeing Donald Trump there once.
It s all built on fear, noise, bigotry, and finger-pointing.
The guy loves to tweet.
But I look at all the candidates on both sides, and I m thinking, These are the people we have to choose from?
What the fuck is going on?
Donald Trump is the candidate in this presidential race who represents fear and hate.
He also represents a right-wing that ignores facts.
Trump doesn t care about anything that made this country great.
He only cares about himself and power he can wield if he somehow becomes president in November.
That cannot be allowed to happen.
We cannot allow Trump to use the deaths of 3,000 people to propel himself to the White House.
It would be a disgrace to their memory and a signal of our own decline as a nation.Featured Image: Wikimedia