Pamela Anderson is best known for her role on the TV show Baywatch.
Lately, she s getting attention for being the love of Wikileaks Julian Assange.
That s why it s interesting that she s now somewhat of a fan of Melania Trump.
It s interesting that Anderson praised Melania for not wearing fur to the inauguration because the First Lady has been pictured many times wearing fur.
An unlikely cause or has Melania gone anti-fur?
It is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace Pamela AndersonOn Wednesday, the Baywatch alum shared a letter she received from the first lady.
Dear Melania, Thank you for your sweet note, Anderson tweeted alongside an image of the letter.
It is heartwarming to see you manage your position with such beauty and grace.
The note from Melania Trump thanked Anderson for sending a beautiful eco-faux fur from Russian faux-fur manufacturer Only Me.
Melania Trump s letter concluded, I am grateful for your support and encouraging words; they mean a great deal.
Together, we can empower more women to stand up for their beliefs.
Anderson sent the gift to FLOTUS in February, with a note that read, Amid all the mania at the inauguration, you looked stunning in an outfit by Ralph Lauren one of many fur-free designers.
I am so happy that you chose not to wear fur!
As first lady, you will help set style trends, and by remaining compassionate with your choices, you will warm the hearts of many.
Anderson has been a longtime animal rights activist and member of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).
In July 2015, she wrote an open letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin asking him to save endangered fin whales.This is an interesting choice for a common cause since Melania Trump has been pictured in many beautiful furs over the years.
Is she now anti-fur?PAM ANDERSON AND WIKILEAKS JULIAN ASSANGE AN ITEMIn April, the Playboy cover star opened up about her relationship with Wikileaks founder Julian Assange, who has been living in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London since 2012.
I understand that our affair and the curiosity surrounding that might bring some attention to his situation.
That s fine, but I d rather not go into private details, she told People.
Let s just say everyone deserves love.
President Donald Trump has expressed that it s OK with him if the Justice Department wanted to charge Assange.
Wonder what Anderson has to say about that?VIA: HOLLYWOOD REPORTER