Michelle Obama is one of the most beloved First Ladies we ve ever seen.
She is a brilliant wife, mother, champion of the people, and, of course, public speaker.
This last talent was never more on display than Monday night during her brilliant command of the stage on the opening night of the 2016 Democratic National Convention.
It was a dazzling speech and let s face it a much-needed one on a day that began fueled by anger surrounding the leak of the Wikileaks emails that seemed to indict some officials in the Democratic National Committee of wanting to conspire to undermine the campaign of Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders during the Democratic Primary.Let s be honest we have different wings of our party.
We have traditional, moderate, rank and file Democrats a la the Clintons and the Obamas.
We have rank and file Democrats that are a bit further to the left and generally identify as pragmatic progressives, a la Elizabeth Warren (I personally fall into this camp).
Then, we have the hard left people who are hardline progressives, many of whom don t even identify as Democrats and aren t registered as such a la Bernie Sanders.
However, despite these differences in positions, at the end of the day, we re all left wingers.
Michelle Obama made us remember that better than anyone on Monday night, and she used her brilliance and penchant for bringing people together and lifting them up to give an amazing, full-throated endorsement of Hillary Clinton to be the next President of the United States.
Her speech was so inspiring that the New York Daily News gave the First Lady her own cover, declaring her the champion of Hillary Clinton.
Here is the cover, complete with Hillary s now iconic H logo, sent out via their Twitter account late Monday night:STOP THE PRESSES!
New front THE LADY IS HER CHAMP@FLOTUS speech brings down the house https://t.co/Vs2SmZ9m6z pic.twitter.com/G3VmZzk8Fe New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) July 26, 2016Hopefully, all of the amazing speakers on Monday night can convince the reachable Bernie supporters that Hillary Clinton is the best choice for President in 2016 including the brilliant and passionate case laid out by Senator Sanders himself.
Let s follow in the footsteps of our leaders and vote blue in November!Featured image via screen capture from Twitter