You ll have a hard time not laughing out loud about this one.Despite having a clear right-wing bias, Megyn Kelly actually had the audacity to claim that Fox News is totally fair and balanced while whining about a supposed liberal bias in the rest of the mainstream media.During an interview with CBS host Charlie Rose on Sunday, Kelly accused most media outlets of having a liberal bias when reporting the news.
I do believe that there is a left-leaning bias in news and most of news, Kelly somehow managed to blurt out without her nose growing like Pinocchio s. You don t believe there is a right-wing bias at Fox, a conservative bias at Fox?
Rose asked even though Kelly s answer was predictable even before he uttered the question.
No, I don t. I think that Fox News is fair and balanced.
And I think the conservatives who are on air here make no bones about their ideology.
Again, Kelly s nose remained the same even though Fox News does, indeed, have a clear right-wing bias and is the propaganda machine of the Republican Party and the evidence of that has piled up over the years.Here s the video via YouTube.In November 2014, Fox News did more than just report that Republicans had taken over the Senate, they openly celebrated about it.In April 2014, Fox head honcho and Kelly s boss Rupert Murdoch actually bragged that his network saved the Republican Party.
A Gallup poll even confirms that an overwhelming 94 percent of Fox viewers lean or identify as Republicans.Additionally, even one of the most conservative senators in Congress has repeatedly pointed out that Fox is totally not fair and totally not balanced.
Oklahoma Senator Tom Coburn urged his constituents to stop believing everything they hear on Fox because There are certain shows on Fox I can t watch because they re totally not fair and totally not balanced.
Coburn said the same thing to constituents four years earlier in 2010 after Fox News tried to scare people by demonizing the Affordable Care Act and painting Nancy Pelosi as a bad person.
The intention is not to put anybody in jail, Coburn said of the Fox claim that people would go to jail for not purchasing health insurance.
That makes for good TV news on Fox, but that isn t the intention.
What we have to have is make sure we have a debate in this country so that you can see what s going on and make the determination yourself, Coburn continued before blasting Fox for besmirching Pelosi s character.
So, don t catch yourself being biased by Fox News that somebody s no good.
Late last year, a Fox News HOST actually had the gall to claim that everyone benefited from locking up more black people in a racist statement that drew outrage.Fox News has even told blatant lies on the air about Muslims that they had to publicly apologize for telling.Next up, take a look at just one broadcast of Sean Hannity s show on Fox as an example of his own work to make the network a pit of right-wing bias even as he claims to be fair and balanced in the same breath.
As one of my colleagues wrote,During a two-minute opening to the segment in which he makes his ludicrous claim, Hannity used the following words and phrases to describe President Obama: liberal, left wing, all out assault on the 2nd Amendment and the rights of law abiding Americans, trampling on your rights, What s his next target?
The First Amendment, The Anointed One, failed on the economy, failed to create jobs, failed to reign in radical extremism abroad.Here s the video via Media Matters.Last time I checked, President Obama has not taken anyone s gun away, the economy is stronger than it was eight years ago, and jobs are being created at a record pace.
Yet, Fox employees like Hannity still repeat the same accusations over and over again.And finally, let s take a look at Bill O Reilly, who got his ass handed to him by a group of high school students early last year for his lack of journalistic ethics.
In their final report after watching a segment of the host s show, the students found that Fox News is not practicing journalism as much as they are practicing rank propaganda.
In short, Fox News has never been fair and balanced and if Megyn Kelly wanted to be known as a credible journalist she should have had the courage to admit it rather than try to sell us another lie like Fox hosts do on a daily basis.Featured image via Myside s Spew