I was in Nordstrom yesterday when our salesperson asked my teenage daughter and I if we had seen the new Ivy Park collection by Beyonce yet?
My response to her was no, as I turned to my daughter and told her I wouldn t buy anything for her from that collection if it was the only thing Nordstrom sold.
It wasn t that long ago I watched Beyonce dressed in her Black Panther inspired costume, performing a hateful, cop bashing song during Super Bowl 2016 (Watch HERE).
I haven t forgotten and it s not likely I ll forget anytime soon.
People who love our country and are tired of seeing it being divided into categories of race and sexual orientation need to stand up to these race peddlers and hit them where it hurts in their bank accounts.
Beyonce s radical, racist husband is making money hand over fist from people of all races, yet he s dumped over $1.5 million into groups and organizations specifically designed to divide our nation and instill hatred towards our law enforcement officers.
Cosmopolitan Since it was announced, people have been dying over the launch of Beyonc s highly anticipated womenswear athleisure line for Toyshop, Ivy Park.
The collection, which hit stores today, is the type of collaboration that people wait hours in line for, trample each other for you get the picture.My mouth dropped when I showed up for the launch of Ivy Park at Topshop s Soho location in New York.
There was not a single person in line.No camping out overnight, no eager shoppers.
It was so quiet I could hear the birds chirping.
All I saw were people walking their dogs and grabbing their morning coffees.
Where was the Beyhive?
I couldn t have been the only one who cared.
Because Beyonc .The doors were set to open at 10 a.m.Here was the scene an hour before the launch They were shocked by the low turnout too.
I woke up and saw the hashtag and could see that London had crazy lines, so I felt like I had to rush to get down to the store, said one shopper, Krystal.
Why are people not here?
It s Beyonc .
I don t understand.
Her much hyped debut sportswear line launched at Topshop in London on Wednesday but Beyonce was no where to be seen.It is the pop star s first collection for Topshop so her no-show was a something of mystery considering the enormous hype surrounding the launch.Retail magnate Sir Philip Green, who owns Topshop among a number of other High St brands, said Beyonce was very involved in the collaboration.
She saw every single piece on (and) was very involved in the development.
My girls loved working with her and it really worked very well, the clothing mogul told USA Today.Her no-show, however, speaks volumes.
Via: Scout Breitbart News Jay-Z s streaming music service Tidal will donate $1.5 million raised at a charity concert last year to Black Lives Matter and other social justice organizations.According to Mic, the money raised at last year s Tidal X charity concert which featured performances from the streaming service s co-owners including Nicki Minaj, Jay-Z, and Beyonc will go to to the New World Foundation, which funds a number of local and national social justice advocacy groups.Among the organizations that will receive donations are Hands Up United, the Opportunity Agenda, the Baltimore Justice Fund, New York s Million Hoodies and NY Justice League, and Illinois Black Youth Project.Donations will also reportedly be given to Trayvon Martin Foundation, the Michael O.D.
Brown We Love Our Sons and Daughters Foundation, and the Oscar Grant Foundation.