The appointment of several white supremacists and controversial political figures to Donald Trump s administration has terrified Americans across the country.
Two of Trump s latest appointments are Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions as Attorney General and retired Army lieutenant general Michael Flynn for national security adviser, and Whoopi Goldberg wasn t afraid to voice her opinion on why this pisses her off on The View.In response to the xenophobic, racist tone Trump s cabinet has taken with its new appointments, Goldberg disagreed with Paula Faris suggestion that the upcoming meeting between Mitt Romney and Donald Trump symbolized some sort of peaceful agreement between the former rivals.
Goldberg told Faris: Goldberg: I m sorry baby, when you see these I m an optimist too.
This does not make me optimistic, this pisses me off.
Addressing the hate speech that Trump and his team have spewed for over a year now, Goldberg gave a brutal reality check to anyone who said they were trying to put stuff behind them and accept the fact that we now have a racist dictator coming into the White House who wants to Make America White Again.
Goldberg dropped the perfect truthbomb when she said: Black people are not going anywhere, they are not going to be slaves anymore so get that out of your head.
Muslims, who were born here as Americans, are not going anywhere.
We re not going anywhere, I don t know why you don t get this part.
It was perfect, and exactly what Trump and his minions needed to hear.
Joy Behar backed Goldberg up and recalled that people are still being harassed in different areas of the country.
She said: What kind of country is this now.
People better not sit back and just take it because they have all the power in the White House, in the Senate, in the House of Representatives, the FBI is in their pocket.
We have to be the loyal opposition in this county.
That s what we re here for.
You can watch this brilliant segment below:Featured image via Mark Wilson and Monica Schipper / Getty Images