More and more traditional Republicans are coming out against the inevitable presidential candidacy of the trainwreck that is Donald Trump.
The latest is Ben Stowe, of the ultra-conservative blog Red State.
Stowe appeared on CNN s Reliable Sources, and host Ben Stelter asked him about Trump specifically about the Hillary you know and the Trump you don t know.
Stowe didn t mince words on Trump, though.
He said of the reality star and business mogul turned clown car politician: No, I think I know exactly who I m getting.
I think I m getting a sociopathic maniac.
And not only do I feel like that s who I m getting, I think that if Donald Trump was president we have four years of him defining conservatism.
Stowe seems to be worried about Trump s redefining of what it means to be an American conservative, and about Trump s clear and inevitable destruction of the Republican Party as we know it.
He referenced the other idiot GOPers who are clearly on the wrong side of history when it comes to cultural differences regarding social issues, and continued to express worry regarding Trump s outrageous and destructive positions.
He continued: It s been bad enough with some of the people we ve had define conservatism over the last several years.
To have Donald Trump be our standard bearer I think would be so destructive, I don t know if we can recover.
This is going to be a third party situation if we can t get him to lose the election.
The thing is, though, there are some conservatives who are falling in lockstep with support of Trump, including Fox News, who Ted Cruz referred to as the Donald Trump network.
Howe isn t drinking the Trump Kool-Aid though, and warned his GOP compatriots: I think it s a matter of, he creates ratings.
I want to address this idea that we were all missing in action when Obamacare came around, when the stimulus came around, he said refuting that the right didn t attack the President enough.
I was out there marching with the Tea Party in 2009 the fact that I m now coming out against Donald Trump is actually very consistent.
I m against liberalism in the destruction of conservatism and that s what Trump represents.
Well, Ben Howe might be a hardcore right winger, but even he understands how dangerous Trump is for both his party and this country.Congratulations GOP, and thanks for the comedic material.
Your party is literally imploding before our very eyes.Watch the exchange below, via Raw Story:Featured image via video screen capture