CNN announced it would be severing its ties to religious scholar and popular writer Reza Aslan.
The long-time CNN contributor was working on a nonfiction show called Believer on the cable network.
His crime?
Responding to Trump s pathetic smears on London after it suffered a terror attack by calling him a piece of shit.
If CNN was interested in relaying the truth, they should have had no problem with the apt description of Trump in the London aftermath.
Many, many Americans and many, many people around the world watched in stunned horror as the President of the United States had a complete meltdown in the hours and days after the attack.All of these behaviors, if done by anyone, would make them a piece of shit.
The fact that it was the President of the United States doing so only reinforced how inappropriate it all was.Aslan s response was not particularly groundbreaking or controversial.
Given the way the president has described women ( moved on her like a bitch, blood coming out of her whatever ), POWs ( I like people who weren t captured ), and well that awful mockery of the disabled, the use of the word shit is hardly an unforgivable sin in this media environment.
And yet CNN has decided to not move forward with production on the acquired series Believer with Reza Aslan, the network said in a statement.
We wish Reza and his production team all the best.
How brave.Aslan, meanwhile, has taken the opportunity to take the high road while also giving a middle finger to censorship.
In a post, he says he believes speaking out against Trump is more important than ever and that if CNN can t handle that then it was probably a good thing the two parted ways.My statement about the cancellation of #Believer pic.twitter.com/ITtXAyQwd5 Reza Aslan (@rezaaslan) June 9, 2017CNN, meanwhile, continues to employ Trump surrogates like Jeffrey Lord who have given audiences such nonsense insights such as birtherism isn t racist and the Congressional Black Caucus is just like the KKK.
CNN also infamously hired Trump s former campaign manager after he was dismissed from Trump s campaign for, among other things, assaulting a female reporter.
They paid him a reported $500,000.
They later let him go after it was revealed he was still being paid an additional $500,000 by Trump s campaign.Featured image via CNN