Just before the Inauguration for the president-elect, a Russian metal working company has minted a sterling silver coin to commemorate Donald Trump s big day.
The coin features Trump s face and the Statue of Liberty is on the flip side.
The coin includes the slogan In Trump we trust.
Well, Russia certainly trusts Trump more than American citizens do.
Trump will enter the Oval Office with the worst approval rating in modern history for a president-elect.Only 45 of the limited-edition coins have been made.Image: screen capture via Associated Press.
The man in charge of Art-Grani, spoke with the the Associated Press Television News and said the coins were designed to express his and other Russian business leaders hopes associated with Trump.
Vladimir Vasyukhin s company is about 650 miles east of Moscow, in south-central Russia s Chelyabinsk region.
He said, there are more hopes associated with Trump with regards to the lifting of sanctions; maybe the environment (between the U.S. and Russia) will change.
CBS reports:Mr. Trump even suggested in an interview with the Times of London several days ago that he might be willing to drop some of the sanctions against Moscow in exchange for an agreement on nuclear arms reduction.
Moscow s reaction to the proposal was muted, and on Tuesday, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said he didn t actually see it as a proposal from the incoming president.Five of the commemorative coins will be cast in silver and the others will be cast in gold.They measure almost five inches in diameter and weigh about two pounds each, similar to coins made by the company featuring Putin and other notable Russians.Watch:We re wondering when the president-elect s accent will start changing to Russian.
Trump has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin as a strong leader who is very smart.
Vasyukhin said the coins will sell for thousands of dollars and added that his company would like to give the first coin to Trump.
Maybe Trump could use the coin to pay back some of the money he owes to Russian banks.Coincidentally, Ann Coulter authored a book titled, In Trump We Trust: E Pluribus Awesome!
We re told by Trump supporters that Donald will be tough on Russia.
Is anyone else laughing, too?Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images