The folks at Fox News are getting crazier on a minute by minute basis and although it s quite sad that this organization calls itself a news outlet, it s nonetheless quite entertaining watching Fox eat its own.In the latest of her rants, so-called judge and Donald Trump supporter Jeanine Pirro is ticked off at her cohort at Fox, nut-job extraordinaire Karl Rove and Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus for their recent statements about a contested Republican convention and Donald Trump.Watch video here:[youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qINfdIhqzXM]Pirro usually reserves her outrageous statements for Democrats or Muslims, but this time she unleashed her fury on Rove and Priebus for their perceived anti-Trump stances.
In response to Rove s suggestion that it would be acceptable for the Republicans to take the nomination away from Trump, even if he goes into the convention with the most delegates but not enough to secure the nomination, unhinged the Fox contributor.
She said: The Republican establishment, desperate to stop Donald Trump and Ted Cruz, is still working to nullify our vote.
If ever there were a time to not take away our vote, it s now at a time when more people than ever are invested and voting.
You want to keep your status quo the one where one hand washes the other, and we pay for the soap.
Pirro also reacted to Rove s remarks where he said a fresh face may be needed to beat Clinton in November.
Pirro said: You want a fresh face?
Aren t you the guy who kept bringing us one Bush after another?
Continuing on her tangent, Pirro also attacked RNC Chairman Reince Priebus, calling him out for refusing to tell Sean Hannity whether the presidential nominee for Republicans will be one of the top vote-getters Trump or Cruz.
Pirro said: Whatever happened to your vote matters?
Not only is that infuriating, it is un-American.
Watching all of these so-called conservatives and Republicans implode before our very eyes comes at just the right time as we head into the elections for November because it helps clarify that the GOP of today should not be in charge of this country.
Featured image via video screenshot.