In case you ve been living under a rock for your entire life, and especially this campaign cycle, Donald Trump is notoriously sexist.
Women who are voting for Trump are pretty much punching themselves in their own face.
He s horrific.
Need further proof, here s an ad where a bunch of his sexist statements were consolidated in one place.Bringing up these sexist remarks on his radio show was right-wing host Charlie Sykes.
However, upon being asked why he has said such awful things, Trump said: I ve been a person that s been in the entertainment business and a very big person in business and I ve been quoted over the years by everybody I became a celebrity.
Oh, so it s okay for celebrities to be sexist assholes, in case you were wondering.
Sykes picking up on this asked Trump further: Are the rules different for celebrities?
Are celebrities allowed to insult women?
Trump responded: Well the rules aren t different, but I never thought I would run for office.
And many people, Howard Stern would interview me and everybody would be having fun, and the women would be laughing.
So, Trump never thought he would run for office and used his celebrity to insult women?
Got it.
Class act, really.Trump even told Sykes he thought this sexism was a dead issue until it was just brought up, with Sykes having all our collective reactions when he said, really?!
It s as though Trump lives in his own reality within the confines of whatever that is on top of his head.
The thing is, he still just wants to be a celebrity.
Listen to any of his speeches and you ll hear how great Trump is and how wonderful Trump will be for the country, and how well Trump is doing in the polls.
He makes it all about himself and rarely talks about what needs to be done for the nation in regards to the betterment of all.
He even had a crowd pledge to HIM, when he should be the one pledging to the nation.
He s a narcissist and clearly doesn t see the error in his ways.
Everything happens to him, never the other way around.
If you criticize something his says, he ll say you re attacking him and taking away his freedom of speech, when really people are just exercising their freedom as well.
He s got thin skin with an ego bursting at the seams.Trump doesn t want to be president, he wants to be loved.
He s like a lost puppy, but a lost puppy who will shit on your shoe and then blame you for having shit on your shoe.
He wants, and has always wanted, to be a celebrity.
That s it.You can listen to the full interview here, with his excuse around the 4:20 mark:Featured Photo by Mark Wallheiser/Getty Images