San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich is no fan of Donald Trump.
He sharply criticized Trump in the run-up to the election, and now that Trump is officially in office, he seems to have no interest in giving the Orange One so much as an inch.
In a recent interview, Popovich openly called Trump a liar, and specifically criticized his activities when he went to speak to the CIA especially Trump s speaking about the size of his crowds in front of a wall representing fallen operatives.
He also said that the massive women s march was great.
Popovich said: That message is important, and it could have been a whole lot of groups marching.
And somebody said on TV, What s their message?
Well, their message is obvious.
That our president comes in with the lowest [approval] rating of anybody who ever came into the office.
And there s a majority of people out there, since Hillary [Clinton] won the popular vote, that don t buy his act.
Popovich then went on to criticize Trump s bigoted remarks against any number of groups of Americans during the campaign and since: He could talk to the groups that he disrespected and maligned during the primary and really make somebody believe it.
But so far, we ve got [to] a point where you really can t believe anything that comes out of his mouth.
You really can t. The coach then moved on Trump s speech at the CIA, and called him emotionally immature and a liar: That s worrisome.
That s worrisome.
I d just feel better if somebody was in that position that showed the maturity and psychological and emotional level of somebody that was his age.
It does boggle the mind how somebody can be so thin-skinned.
It s all obvious it s about him.
If anything affects him, if it s Saturday Night Live or Hamilton or she got 3 more million votes than you.
They re illegal.'
It doesn t matter what it is, there s a pattern there.
And that s dangerous.
I d like to have someone with gravitas, but he got there through the Electoral College, which is part of our system, and I hope he does some good things.
Hopefully, people with megaphones continue to speak out against Trump and his dishonest, autocratic administration.
If we hold their feet to the fire, we just might survive the next four years.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images