Donald Trump has had a terrible week, so Seth Meyers piled on with a load of humiliation and mockery.Republicans are starting to back away from Donald Trump, but not because he s a racist and a misogynist.
They re okay with that.
Republicans are mad because their nominee has refused to endorse House Speaker Paul Ryan in the tough primary race he faces in Wisconsin.During his show on Thursday night, Seth Meyers had a field day with Trump s disastrous week.
This is the final straw?
Meyers asked.
Not the racism or the misogyny or the wall?
Yep, that s certainly what it looks like.
And even some of Trump s most ardent supporters are starting to criticize him.Newt Gingrich was on Trump s shortlist to be the vice-presidential nominee and he compared Trump to a great quarterback who throws a bunch of interceptions in a game.But Meyers corrected him: Actually, it s more like watching a quarterback throw an interception, blame the interception on Mexicans, insult the coach s mother and then storm off the field bitching that the game is rigged.
Mike Huckabee, who had no problem setting aside his Christian morals to defend Trump, a man who has none, defended Trump s meltdown by insisting that he will be surrounded by the best people if he is put the White House even though Trump hasn t exactly done that during his campaign or at the convention, where most Republican shunned Trump and he ended up bringing has-beens like Scott Baio to Cleveland.Well, Seth Myers had a response to that as well.
Dudes, chill out he ll be way cooler and more reasonable just as soon as we give him more power, Meyers sarcastically said.
You know, the same way drunk people always calm down once you give them back their car keys.
And I m not sure it s all that comforting when the biggest promise you can make about your candidate is, he ll have adults around him and we ll lock him out of his Twitter account.
That s how it works with Justin Bieber, and it barely works with him.
But perhaps the biggest gaffe Trump made this week is when he kicked a mother and her baby out of a rally because the baby was crying.Trump appeared to show compassion and understanding at first, but then he quickly demonstrated his dislike of babies by asking for the mother and baby to be removed.
That is a huge gaffe for a Republican, because the GOP platform does not allow you to change your mind about a baby, Meyers quipped.Meyers then went on to mock Trump for being obsessed with starting a nuclear apocalypse and for already whining about how the election is allegedly already rigged against him.Here s the video via YouTube.Donald Trump is not fit to be president of the most powerful nation on the planet.
He is joke and would be seen as a joke by the rest of the world.
Republicans should be embarrassed and ashamed that they made Trump their nominee.
The only way they can redeem themselves is by making sure Trump loses by a landslide on Election Day.Featured image via screen capture