A notorious race-baiter is paid to visit a government agency and deliver a racist rant WTH!
Your tax dollars paid for this insane rant against whites.
The kicker is the Census Bureau paid Gregory a whopping $1,400 to share a wealth of history as a Civil Rights Activist.
So he got paid to offend anyone who s not black unreal!The U.S. government paid a controversial civil rights activist/comedian to deliver an anti-white racist tirade at a major federal agency during Black History month and Judicial Watch has obtained the disturbing transcript of the offensive political rant.It took place at the United States Census Bureau earlier this year and the paid speaker was Dick Gregory, a self-professed humanitarian and drum major for justice who claims that his social satire changed the way white Americans perceive African American comedians.
But Gregory s angry outburst at the Census Bureau was not funny to some employees and the agency was forced to explain that it will thoroughly review its procedures for selecting future speakers to ensure their views are appropriate for the federal workplace.
Gregory also said whites stole black inventions, such as ice hockey and the cotton gin, and accused the U.S. government of conspiring to kill Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri and Tamir Rice in Cleveland, Ohio.
The movie King Kong is really a depiction of former heavyweight champion Jack Johnson dating white women, Gregory claimed at the Census Bureau performance, and whites treat President Obama like dirt and like he s a Redneck Cracker that can t read or write.
Gregory delivered most of his routine in Ebonics (also known as African American Vernacular English) and advised his black audience not to obey white racist cops, which he also referred to as filth.
The rioters who destroyed Ferguson after a cop fatally shot a black man with an extensive criminal record who had just committed a robbery, didn t steal enough merchandise from the businesses they looted, Gregory told his government audience.
I was complaining about Ferguson because the N_ _ _ _ _ _ wasn t getting enough, Gregory said, according to the transcript obtained by JW.
Did you see the brother go in there and walk out with a half-pint, I said Get some tips.
And, y all be trying to trick them White folks and say rebellion.
No rebellion is put together, predicated, on some White person shooting a Black person and that tips it off.
Those was riots, riots.
Gregory also told his audience of public servants that if he were president of the United States no white people would be in his cabinet.
Had I been elected to be the President, listen good White folks, none of y all would be in my cabinet, he says.
Now don t worry about Black folks who be saying oh, he didn t mean it.
So, I ll say it ten times, non of y all be in my cabinet, none of y all be in my cabinet, none of y all be in my cabinet.
Via: Judicial Watch