LOL!
This group gets raided for suspicion of massive voter fraud, and their defense is that the Republican Secretary of State and (of course) the police, are responsible for preventing 45,000 African Americans from voting?
And you know what s even scarier?
Indiana s not even a state that should be in play for the Democrats.
Just imagine how they ve been organizing in the swing states where the vote is expected to be close.
Pretty scary stuff Indiana police raided the offices of the Indiana Voter Registration Project in north Indianapolis on Tuesday in a growing voter fraud case.It is not clear who established or funded the Indiana Voter Registration Project.
However, the group released a statement through spokeswoman Christy Setzer, whose PR firm s website says she has worked as a Democratic strategist for the presidential campaigns of Al Gore, Howard Dean and Chris Dodd.
Indiana State Police investigators on Tuesday searched a voter registration agency on Indianapolis north side as they look into a voter fraud case that spans nine counties.The investigation began in late August when police learned of the filing of fraudulent voter registration forms in Marion and Hendricks counties.The investigation has expanded from Marion and Hendricks counties to include Allen, Delaware, Hamilton, Hancock, Johnson, Lake and Madison counties, according to a statement from State Police.Police said the growing number of involved counties leads investigators to believe that the number of fraudulent records might be in the hundreds.
An investigation of this nature is complex, time consuming and is expected to continue for several more weeks or months, said a State Police statement.
Victims of the activities by some agents of the Indiana Voter Registration Project may not discover they have been disenfranchised from voting until they go to vote and realize their voting information has been altered.
Such action may result in the citizen having to cast a provisional ballot.
Officials said a representative sample of voter registration applications received by county voter registration offices and suspected of being fraudulent have been copied and provided to investigators.
The original applications are maintained by the appropriate voter registration office.The possible fraudulent information is a combination of fake names, addresses and dates of birth with real information.
USA Today Via: Gateway Pundit