All the political buzz right now is whether or not Elizabeth Warren will be Hillary Clinton s vice presidential nominee.
The once neutral Massachusetts Senator has now passionately endorsed Clinton to be the Democratic Party s nominee for President of the United States, and women s groups are ecstatic at the thought of a two women ticket.But what s more significant isn t that a Clinton-Warren ticket would be comprised of two women, it s that it would be comprised of two former Republicans coming together to usher in one of the most progressive party platforms this country has ever seen.Clinton, who was a Goldwater girl and a Republican until 1968, and Warren, a Republican until 1996, both had their reasons for leaving the GOP and joining the progressive movement.
Clinton let over her opposition to the Vietnam War, and the party s veiled racist messages at the 1968 Republican National Convention (these veiled racist messages would later be known as the Southern Strategy).Elizabeth Warren, on the other hand, who is roughly the same age as Clinton, stayed in the GOP for a lot longer, but realized (coincidentally, during the Clinton Administration) that they were nothing but a bunch of frauds suckling at the teat of big money: I was an independent.
I was with the GOP for a while because I really thought that it was a party that was principled in its conservative approach to economics and to markets.
And I feel like the GOP party just left that.
They moved to a party that said, No, it s not about a level playing field.
It s now about a field that s gotten tilted.
And they really stood up for the big financial institutions when the big financial institutions are just hammering middle class American families.
I just feel like that s a party that moved way, way away.
Two iconic, liberal women.
Both former Republicans.
Now?
They may be the next President and Vice President of the United States.Compared to Warren (and indeed Sanders), Clinton is certainly the more moderate one.
But that doesn t mean she isn t a progressive in her own right, fighting for the rights of women and children for decades and standing up to lobbies that want to turn back the clocks.
Clinton s compassion for working families, coupled with Warren s watchdog zeal for the big banks, seems to make us forget they started with conservative backgrounds.It s interesting how that works.
From humble, conservative backgrounds to being the front page news on the cusp of history as Democrats.Some conservatives cow tow to the elites, like the so called Reagan Democrats, and others wake up one day, look around, and realize that the system isn t working anymore.
So they become Democrats, and fight to make the country a better place.While the Democrats have (hopefully) chosen an evolved ticket, Republicans have nominated a constant flip flopper; Trump was a Democrat before 1987; Republican from 1987 to 1999; Reform from 1999 to 2001; Democrat again from 2001 to 2009; Republican again from 2009 to 2011; Independent from 2011 to 2012; and is now a Republican, again.These two ladies had what s called a natural progression.
Trump?
He s seen opportunities to benefit him and only him.With Warren and Clinton, America gets exactly what they see.
With Trump, who knows.
But what we do know is this: Clinton Warren chose to become Democrats, and have stuck by that principle for decades.
And they may very well be our next President and Vice President.Featured image via Mark Wilson/Getty Images