A racist, anti-gay Tennessee Republican who thinks rape victims are liars was hilariously taken to the woodshed by Samantha Bee on Monday.GOP state Rep. Sheila Butt has made an ass of herself ever since taking office.
She has openly called for the creation of a National Association for the Advancement of White People and is staunchly opposed to same-sex marriage and homosexuality.
She has also viciously targeted rape victims, whom she thinks are lying about being raped just so they can get an abortion.In response to all of these hateful and bigoted stances held by this conservative Christian lawmaker, Bee hilariously skewered her.
Right, those crimes are totally unverifiable, Bee said of Butt s remarks about rape.
So we should go with the likeliest assumption that girls are lying whores that just like the prestige of claiming to be raped by their fathers?
It s called Occam s Razor, libtards!
And then she moved on to Butt s racism, suggesting that NAAWP could also stand for National Association for the Advancement of Walrus Penises and that we should all spread the word that Sheila Butt loves walrus penises.
I mean, she does seem to think about sex a lot, Bee noted before masterfully seguing to Butt s views on homosexuality.
In her Christian dating guide Everyday Princess, Daughter of The King, Butt comes down on a 3-year-old who married her two female Barbies, telling her, Girls don t marry girls.
God made girls to marry boys!
Look, Sheila, if you don t believe in homosexuality, you should never have supported a toy line that includes Ken.
That guy is young, dumb and hungry for c*m. And then Bee finished the Tennessee Republican off by literally making her the butt of a seriously funny piece of advice for women.
So, girls, next time you re tempted to have dirty sinful sex, resist the urge.
Instead, do all the stuff Sheila Butt suggests, or as she may call it, Butt Stuff.
This Tennessee state representative wants you to do lots and lots of Butt stuff.
Do Butt stuff until it hurts!
Here s the video via YouTube.Simply put, Sheila Butt is going to be the butt of many more jokes from now on thanks to Samantha Bee.
Featured image via screenshot