If there s one Democrat that Donald Trump is scared sh*tless of, it s Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.).
Warren was a massive thorn in Trump s side during his presidential campaign, and she certainly hasn t let up after he got into the White House.
And now that Trump has pissed Democrats off by firing FBI Director James Comey, he s probably regretful that one of them is Warren.Warren s feelings about Trump s shady firing of Comey were made known on Friday, when Warren gave a commencement address at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
During her speech, she basically wiped the floor with Trump, encouraging the UMass graduates to get involved in political causes and join the resistance.
Warren slammed Trump s firing of Comey when she said: I m trying to keep this apolitical but I can t help myself the principle that no one, no one in this country is above the law and we need a Justice Department, not an obstruction of justice department.
And she didn t stop there.
Warren made sure to criticize all of Trump s helpers equally, even mocking Kellyanne Conway for her alternative facts.
Warren joked: Go online and read the facts, not the alternative facts the real facts.
I have to say I had never thought we would need a modifier for facts.
Warren made sure to trash the spineless Republicans that have helped Trump succeed as well.
Zeroing in on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Warren observed that nudging graduates to get involved in policy wouldn t make her Ms.
Popularity.
Then she quipped: I think as long as Mitch McConnell is running the Senate that s out of reach for me.
This was a speech where Warren let loose on the GOP and Trump administration, and we couldn t be more proud.
Warren has been a powerful voice in fighting Trump s disgraceful agenda, and we need her to inspire America s youth more than ever.
You can watch her speech below: America needs your commitment, Sen. Warren tells UMass graduates at commencement https://t.co/Pur56UvEFh masslivenews (@masslivenews) May 13, 2017Featured image is a screenshot