Since Donald Trump began his run for the president, there has been one clear message: if you aren t white (preferably male) and Christian, you aren t a true American.
Add that to the Tea Party, which started when Barack Obama was elected president (they didn t care about taxation enough to organize when there were white presidents), and we have a recipe for violence.
In North Carolina, the Tea Party is threatening just that toward Muslims and the Trump administration, at least so far, is silent.About a third of Americans believe that if we let Muslim immigrants in, our country will be subjected to Sharia law, which is about the equivalent of Biblical law, which those Americans have no problem with.
Sharia law, like Biblical law, would be a direct violation of the Constitution, but the only part they know of is the Second Amendment, which brings us to what these Tea Partiers want to do to Muslims they want to kill the hell out of them.The meeting was held in a North Carolina seafood restaurant and it included about two dozen Tea Partiers, many of whom are part of right-wing militia groups.
Do you have any recommendations as to how we could stop this?
asked Frank del Valle, a Winston-Salem resident whose Facebook page identifies him as a retired federal employee and native of Cuba, near the end of the hourlong presentation.
Because my only recommendation is to start killing the hell out them.
Source: Triad City BeatAccording to the group, they aren t the only ones: Political correctness is being thrown away, he said.
A lot of people are meeting like this.
We re making progress in the positive direction.
He argued for supporting reformers in the Muslim faith, adding, We need to talk about how we can get things done peacefully.
Be ready for the worst.
I am beyond that point, del Valle replied.
I m ready to start taking people out.
That damned Sharia law is everywhere: The Muslim Brotherhood is behind all that terrorism and violent acts, but they re also here operating in America in a very stealthy mode, he said.
They ve infiltrated the judiciary.
They have judges that are elected to the bench.
These judges are expected to make rulings from the bench here in America according to sharia law even though it s not a sharia court.
If you ve got a Muslim judge he s required to try you under sharia law.
These people are in high positions of influence often behind the scenes in government, academia, medicine, the media.
How many of you have been to a hospital and seen the doctors that are running around in the hospital?
Actually, judges are required to NOT try people under Sharia law and the vast majority of doctors are white, but the Tea Party has never been good with facts.These Tea Partiers are feeling empowered these days, for good reason.
Trump has all but eliminated any references to right-wing terrorism, which is very real and already underreported.
If Trump denounces right-wing extremism, he will be denouncing his most loyal base and that isn t going to happen.Featured image via Phillipp Guelland/Getty Images