Seriously, he really picked this as his 2020 slogan.
We re all gonna die.Donald Trump hasn t even served a day as president, and won t officially do so until Monday since he has decided that the first two days after his inauguration will be vacation days.
However, he has already picked a slogan on which to run during the 2020 campaign.During an interview with the Washington Post, Trump got all sorts of giddy about a slogan he thought of to use four years from now.According to the Washington Post,Halfway through his interview with The Washington Post, Trump shared a bit of news: He already has decided on his slogan for a reelection bid in 2020.
Are you ready?
he said.
Keep America Great, exclamation point.
Get me my lawyer!
the president-elect shouted.Two minutes later, one arrived.
Will you trademark and register, if you would, if you like it I think I like it, right?
Do this: Keep America Great, with an exclamation point.
With and without an exclamation.
Keep America Great, Trump said.
Got it, the lawyer replied.There s just one legal problem and one terrifying problem with this new slogan.First of all, the slogan has already been used by a movie as a tagline, so trademarking and registering it could be rather difficult and result in legal issues.Second, the movie Trump is apparently trying to steal the slogan from is The Purge: Election Year, which is an installment of a horror film series, set in America, in a dystopian future where every citizen in this country is allowed to commit any crime they want, no matter how horrible, for an entire day without consequences.Don t believe it?
Here s the trailer via YouTube.Here s another one in which the lead character, a U.S.
Senator played by Elizabeth Mitchell, explains that the annual purge targets the poor and the innocent.Trump picked a seriously f*cked up slogan this time, and considering that he will be in control of the White House while Republicans control Congress, everyone should be scared to death.Featured Image via screen capture from embedded video