On Monday, what has unfortunately become a routinely occurrence at Donald Trump rallies has happened yet again: a black protester was violently attacked by one of the Republican front runner s insane racist fans.The incident happened at a rally in Albany, NY and was posted to social media by The Daily Gazette s Kate Seckinger.
In the short clip, a group of protesters were being confronted by several of Trump s loyal fans when things suddenly got out of hand and took a turn for the worst.
One of the men from the crowd lunged forward and grabbed one of the protesters (an African-American male) in the face.
Other rallygoers tried to control the attack and pull the enraged Trump fan off of the protester, but not before he struck the protester across the face again.
You can watch the disturbing attack below:Fight breaks out at @realDonaldTrump rally at the @TUCenter pic.twitter.com/YMZh60seGp Kate Seckinger (@KateSeckinger) April 11, 2016The attacker, who later identified himself as Mike , explains why he attacked the protester in the baffling clip below, courtesy of MSNBC.
Basically, his justification for the violence was: I have my personal rights and my personal space.
They re gonna start yelling about some bullsh*t, I ll snatch your *ss up.
That s all.
Mike claimed the supporter was yelling in my face , but if you watched the clip of the attack, it s clear that the protester wasn t anywhere near Mike s personal space Mike had to push through several people just to get close enough to attack the protester.
It s also interesting that he would make a direct beeline for the only African-American protester.
But anyway, here s Mike justifying his senseless act of violence and racism:It s unclear if any charges will come of this attack, and according to police no arrests were made.When MSNBC s reporter asked Mike if he was a Trump supporter, his answer explained everything.
Mike said: Hell yeah!
He s no bullsh*t. All balls.
F*ck you all balls.
That s what I m about.
These kind of attacks at Trump s rallies are so unfortunately common.
They are not only racially motivated and many times brought on by nothing at all, but they are encouraged by the disgraceful candidate himself.
Trump has continually denied that his rallies are peaceful and safe enough for children to attend, however there is more than enough evidence to prove otherwise.
Trump is running an irresponsible, anger-fueled campaign, and his supporters are just as racist, irrational and dangerous as he is.
People like Trump and Mike are a disgrace to not only America, but humanity itself.Featured image is a screenshot