Donald Trump has promoted the conspiracy theory that this year s election is going to be rigged, but there is no such operation in place from Democrats.
But new emails leaked from North Carolina Republicans show that it is Trump s party that has been caught in a scheme to rig the election in their favor.The N.C. Republican Party encouraged GOP appointees to county elections boards to make party line changes to early voting by limiting the number of hours and keeping polling sites closed on Sundays.NCGOP executive director Dallas Woodhouse emailed the request to Republican county board members and other party members on Sunday.
The News & Observer obtained copies of the emails through a public records request.The North Carolina GOP s letter advised Republican election board members to do what they can to cut down on early voting, just as Democrats have been pushing a strong early voting campaign in the state.
President Obama won North Carolina in 2012, and Clinton has been polling well there as well.
It is seen as a very likely Democratic state, as the party moves into the once solid south (Virginia has gone blue for two straight elections as well).North Carolina Republicans also pushed their board members to fight back against Sunday voting.
The practice has been extremely popular among black voters, who have been organized by groups to go to the polls directly after Sunday church services in a movement called souls to the polls.
And the third prong of the North Carolina attempt to rig the election was an attempt to move early voting sites from college campuses.
Young voters, of course, disproportionately vote for Democratic candidates, and the youth demographic is Trump s worst performing segment of the population (his base are older, white Americans.
)North Carolina is one of the southern states with a history of suppressing the black vote, and the conservative-led Supreme Court struck down portions of the Voting Rights Act that had been put in place to provide oversight.
Congressional Republicans have refused to re-authorize the act.Featured image via public domain