Music mogul Russell Simmons has been friends with Republican nominee Donald Trump for the past 30 years, and has finally come forward to express his opinion on Trump s run for the presidency.In a recent interview with Fortune, Simmons revealed that although Trump had many political and personal beliefs that he didn t agree with, he still found Trump to be a likable person.
However, Simmons made it perfectly clear that he didn t think Trump was a suitable person for the presidency.
In expressing how unqualified Trump was to run the country, Simmons was candid about the racist and anti-semitic comments he heard and witnessed Trump make over the last three decades.
Simmons said: People carry beliefs that are hurtful, none of us are enlightened I would laugh off things he said that were off-color, that kind of didn t represent my viewpoints.
Certainly, I heard things that seemed a little racist.
Simmons observed that Trump s remarks, which were often times Islamophobic and anti-black, could have devastating consequences on the country.
He said: The fear is that his statements would take people who would never even admit to having those seeds of hate in them, and water those seeds, and then those people would say things they wouldn t even imagine saying, and then it became the norm.
You can watch Simmons interview below:[ad3media campaign= 1215 ]Simmons has spoken out about Trump s racism before.
Although he may have been trying to be kind to Trump during the Fortune interview, he was much more blunt in a September interview with CNN Money.
Simmons told CNN: [Donald] has said racist things for 30 years.
White supremacy, he s the epitome of it.
He represents the image of white supremacy more than any candidate I ve seen.
Having been Trump s friend for several decades, there s no one better to expose who Trump really is.
Hopefully, America is listening.
Trump s offensive campaign behavior isn t an act for entertainment or shock value it s who he really is, and it s the kind of President he would be.Featured image via Win McNamee and Frazer Harrison / Getty Images