A struggling mom sent an email to all 122 of Mississippi s lawmakers asking for help getting insulin and an insulin pump for her diabetic daughter.
This was after she called 23 suppliers, trying to find one that would take Medicaid following her former supplier s move out of Medicaid s network.
Her daughter has Type 1 diabetes, and needs six to ten insulin injections per day just to live.Nicole Nichols was flabbergasted when she received this response from State Representative Jeffrey Guice: I am sorry for your problem.
Have you thought about buying the supplies with money that you earn?
Wow.
A struggling mom gets desperate and emails her lawmakers for help, and she gets slapped down with a horrifically insensitive reply from someone who doesn t know squat about her or her family.
Guice is the perfect example of what s wrong with the GOP.
The bootstraps crowd over there has a very limited understanding of these things.Guice issued an apology for his terrible response, which actually just reinforces the fact that he doesn t care about anyone outside his little bubble: I realize my remarks to Mrs. Nichols were completely insensitive and out of line I am sorry and deeply regret my reply.
I know nothing about her and her family and replied in knee-jerk fashion.
I d like to think the people of Mississippi and my constituents know that I m willing to help where I am able.
I replied in knee-jerk fashion.
That s basically an admission that he thinks anyone receiving government aid is a lazy good-for-nothing living high on the hog off of the backs of hardworking taxpayers.
That s what the entire GOP thinks about people on aid.
What an obtuse piece of flotsam.Nichols told her story to the Clarion-Ledger, going into more detail in a video about her situation and why she needs these supplies:Nichols is a stay-at-home mom, but her husband works two jobs to provide for their family of four.
The insulin pump, which her daughter needs to avoid having to go through six to ten injections every day, is $2,000.
The insulin itself can run as much as $400 per month.
Struggling families can t afford that, and no amount of get a job is going to change that.Nichols actually did receive two other replies, both of which were sympathetic to her situation.
Thankfully, people like Guice aren t calling the shots here.
Nichols posted about this on her Facebook page, prompting a barrage of outraged comments from people who read it.
Mississippi Medicaid saw her post, actually had some compassion, and reached out to Nichols about this very situation.Guice, and the rest of the GOP, are heartless brutes.
He might regret his comments, but the fact that he even made them shows that he s just another one of those who thinks everyone should just magically grow bootstraps with which to pull themselves up.Featured image via screen capture from embedded video