A group of white nationalists and skinheads who support Donald Trump s presidential campaign who were involved in a stabbing attack in California have announced that they will be at the Republican National Convention this July in Cleveland.The group, who call themselves the Traditionalist Worker Party revealed their plans.A group of white nationalists and skinheads who held a rally in Sacramento over the weekend where at least five people were stabbed plans to show up at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland next month to make sure that the Donald Trump supporters are defended.
The violent clash at the California state Capitol accentuates concerns about the Republican National Convention, with political tensions high and thousands of pro- and anti-Trump protesters expected to descend on Cleveland.Matthew Heimbach, who leads the group, has been described by the Southern Poverty Law Center as someone considered by many to be the face of a new generation of white nationalists.
At a Trump rally in March, after Trump told protesters Get out of here.
Get Out.
Out.
Out Out!
Get out, Heimbach was one of the mean caught on video roughing up a black woman.
The woman said Trump supporters in the crowd chanted racial and sexual epithets at her as she was removed.During previous protests at his rally, often from black and Latino activists, Trump has lamented that it is no longer acceptable to rough up dissenters, and even said he would consider paying the legal fees of a man arrested after punching a protester at a Trump rally.Heimbach has said he wants to create a new homeland for whites around the entire world in America and said California is full of Mexicans and that s sort of a problem.
Trump, of course, has accused Mexican immigrants of bringing crime to America and described them as rapists.
Heimbach, discussing immigrants: Stay in your own nations, we don t want you here.
Trump has promised to build a beautiful wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.Featured image via YouTube