Amateur president Donald Trump met with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Monday to speak in a joint press conference, and he thoroughly embarrassed the U.S. again by feeding his ego in front of the entire world.
The topic of Syrian refugees was brought up by a reporter, and of course, Trump had to bring up his election victory.
President Trump, you seemed to suggest that Syrian refugees are a Trojan horse for potential terrorism, while the prime minister hugs refugees and welcomes them with open arms, a reporter asked.
Are you confident the northern border is secure?
You can never be totally confident, Trump replied.
Trump heaped praise on Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly for doing a great job of deporting very, very hardened criminals so far, as reported by Talking Points Memo.
That s what I said I would do.
I m just doing what I said I would do, and we won by a very, very large electoral college vote, Trump said.Trump went on to say that he knew he would win the election.
That s an odd statement to make since he admitted to being surprised that he won after the election during his thank you tour following the election.
I knew this is what people were wanting.
That wasn t the only reason, that wasn t my only thing that we did so well on, but that was something that was very important, Trump said.
I think that in the end, everyone is going to be extremely happy.
And I will tell you right now, a lot of people are very, very happy right now.
Watch:A lot of people are not very happy right now as Trump suggested.
His approval rating is tanking like the Titanic.
Before taking the oath of office, Trump s approval rating as president-elect was the worst in modern history, and it s gotten even worse since Inauguration Day.
Trump s disapproval rating has risen 5 percentage points since just last week.
Since his election, Trump has witnessed mass protests across the country.
The Women s March on Washington, which took place the day after he was sworn in, garnered a far larger crowd than his inauguration.
Nope, people are not happy right now, but he knows that.
That s why he repeatedly brings up his election victory and most times, tries to claim he won the popular vote by saying that 3 million people voted illegally in the U.S. election.
That s nearly the same number by which Hillary Clinton won the popular vote.Featured image by Alex Wong via Getty Images.