Lou Dobbs goes after Fusion GPS and their connections to the DNC in the video below The evidence is clear that the Trump Jr. meeting with a Russian lawyer was a total set up by Fusion GPS Was the Hillary camp responsible?
How involved was the Obama administration?
Dobbs names several in the Obama administration who could have been involved in the set-up FUSION GPS LIED ABOUT KNOWING ABOUT MEETING:Fusion GPS responded in a statement: Fusion GPS learned about this meeting from news reports and had no prior knowledge of it.
Any claim that Fusion GPS arranged or facilitated this meeting in any way is false.
BUSTED!
MEETING BETWEEN FUSION GPS AND RUSSIAN LAWYER BEFORE AND AFTER:The co-founder of Fusion GPS, the firm behind the unverified Trump dossier, met with a Russian lawyer before and after a key meeting she had last year with Trump Jr.
The contacts shed new light on how closely tied the firm was to Russian interests, at a time when it was financing research to discredit then-candidate Donald Trump.The opposition research firm has faced renewed scrutiny after litigation revealed that the DNC and Hillary Clinton s campaign paid for that research.
Congressional Republicans have since questioned whether that politically financed research contributed to the FBI s investigation of Russian collusion with the Trump campaign making Fusion s 2016 contacts with Russian interests all the more relevant.DNC MONEY FUNNELED THROUGH LAW FIRM TO FUSION GPS?The June 2016 Trump Tower meeting involving Donald Trump Jr. and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya occurred during a critical period.
Bank records show Fusion GPS was paid by a law firm for work on behalf of a Kremlin-linked oligarch while paying a former British spy Christopher Steele to dig up dirt on Trump through his Russian contacts.But hours before the Trump Tower meeting on June 9, 2016, Fusion co-founder and ex-Wall Street Journal reporter Glenn Simpson was with Veselnitskaya in a Manhattan federal courtroom.
Court records show email correspondence and published reports corroborate the pair s presence together.
They also were together after the Trump Tower meeting.Read more: Fox News