***UPDATE***The listing has been removed, and Zimmerman almost assuredly feels like a victim.George Zimmerman is terrible.
A habitual woman abuser and child killer-turned-terrible-painter, the man who sparked national controversy by stalking and murdering Trayvon Martin in 2012 just proved that he has absolutely no shame.
None at all.
Not even the teensiest little bit.
Zimmerman has said that he feels no regret for gunning down Martin, despite that police told him to stay in his car and not to engage when Zimmerman called 911 to report that someone walking through the neighborhood looked a little too black for his taste.
Not even the fact that Martin was armed with only a can of Arizona and a pack of Skittles phases the right-wing hero.
In fact, Zimmerman genuinely believes he is the victim in all this.Given his rather disturbed mentality, it is unsurprising that George is doing the most despicable thing he has done since the night he murdered an unarmed African-American child who was simply walking home: He s selling the gun he used to murder Trayvon Martin.
I m a free American.
I can do what I like with my possessions, Zimmerman told WOFL on Wednesday night.
It s time to move past the firearm.
And if I sell it and it sells, I move past it.
Otherwise, it s going in a safe for my grandkids and [is] never to be, you know, used or seen again.
Zimmerman s auction is running on GunBroker.com, where bidding begins at $5,000 the price he is attaching to Trayvon Martin s life.
In his posting, he says that he is honored and humbled to announce the sale of the firearm that was used to defend my life and end the brutal attack from Trayvon Martin on 2/26/2012.
Zimmerman says that numerous people have offered to buy the gun, but that the prospective purchasers wanted to use the gun in a fashion that even he did not feel comfortable with.
He says the firearm is fully functional despite the efforts of B. Hussein Obama to render the firearm inoperable, noting that the purchaser may do with the firearm what they wish.
Zimmerman says that he will use the proceeds to fight against Black Lives Matter, to end the political career of the prosecutor who handled his murder trial, and to attack Hillary Clinton.
Now is your opportunity to own a piece of American history, he concludes.Asked what he thought about the opinions of those who would oppose the sale of the gun he used to kill a child, including Trayvon Martin s parents.
Zimmerman explained that he doesn t care much: They re not going to be bidding on it so I couldn t care less about them.
Watch a report on this disgusting gun sale below:Featured image via Net-Biographies.com