The more they hammer the GOP frontrunners, the more popular they become with the American voter.
Is the real revolution taking place with the American people against the misleading, reckless and agenda driven media?
After more than a hundred days of leading in every national poll, a New York Times/CBS poll released Tuesday shows Dr. Ben Carson edging into a 26% to 22% national lead over Donald Trump for the Republican presidential nomination.
The margin of error is a high 6%.
But in this same poll, the trend shows that Trump has lost -5 points, while Carson gained +5 points.According to the Real Clear Politics poll of poll, Trump currently enjoys a +5 point national lead over Carson.Every other candidate is trailing by -14 or more points.
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) is in third with 8%; Jeb Bush and Carly Fiorina are tied at 7%.
Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY), Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX), Mike Huckabee, and John Kasich are all tied up at 4%.If you include Cruz, the non-establishment candidates earn 59% of support from Republican primary supporters.There is some good news for Trump: his support is firmer than Carson s. a full 55% of Trump supporters said he is their guy to the bitter end, compared to just 20% for Carson.Carson s national surge (at least in this poll) into first place coincides with what can only be described as a commanding lead in Iowa.
According to the Real Clear Politics poll of polls, Carson beats Trump by 9% in the all-important caucus state.Trump enjoys a commanding lead in every other state.To those of us living out here in the real world, Carson s rise is only a surprise to the DC Media.
Earlier this month, Carson had a phenomenal week as the DC Media ganged up to destroy Carson over things he said that were not at all controversial.
Carson suggested students practice self-defense if faced with a mass-shooter and that Nazi-era Jews would have been in a better position to resist more had the government not confiscated their firearms in advance of the Holocaust.Democrats and their media allies have a long history of punishing black people who do not think the way they believe black people should think.
Only today, instead of using the KKK, German Shepherds, and firehoses, the media uses Narratives and name-calling ( crazy, stupid ) to other free-thinking black men who dare stray from the Left-Wing Thought Plantation.
That s why people don t trust you (the press) anymore.
Ben Carson brilliantly hands the press their hat in this clip:https://youtu.be/GJcYnEhc0x8In the face of his racist DC Media oppressors, Carson, who has struggled in the past during media appearances, was nothing short of phenomenal.
The good doctor kept his cool, his poise, and brilliantly made his case.
It was the best week of his campaign, and what voters saw was a man fully capable of handling a hostile media.Also, voters are likely responding to the fact that, at least for now, Carson gives the GOP their best chance to defeat Hillary.
He s up +5 points over her in the Real Clear poll of polls.
Trump loses by -2.5 points.Via: Breitbart News