It s hard to believe that so many people are so remarkably stupid and bigoted in North Carolina, but alas, they really seem to be.
Of course, not the entire state, but there does seem to be a rather large group of the population that believes transgender individuals are out to cause harm.
When in reality, those who are transgender are actually just living their truth and should be treated with dignity and respect for doing so.With the passage and signing of HB2, better known as the now infamous bathroom bill, it s basically given citizens of the state permission to be the bathroom police.
To be clear, HB2 has nothing to do with bathroom safety, and everything to do with being discriminatory bigots to the transgender community.Now, because of this legislated discrimination, the Rowan-Salisbury Board of Education is now allowing students to bring pepper spray into school bathrooms.
You know, to protect themselves, which in all honesty just gave permission to every bigoted child in that state to use this allowance as a get out of jail free card to those they want to physically abuse by means of pepper spray.
Think about it, you can already hear the I thought they were going to attack me excuses piling up, and administrators being like, well, in that case Board member Chuck Hughes, who is in favor of the pepper spray and referenced HB2 in his argument, said: Depending on how the courts rule on the bathroom issues, it may be a pretty valuable tool to have on the female students if they go to the bathroom, not knowing who may come in.
Keep in mind, this also means that students will seemingly be able to have pepper spray on their person at all times while in school.
Surely there will be no complications with such a thing (sarcasm).This school board just made it perfectly fine for students to openly harm transgender individuals.
Individuals who just need to use the restroom like everybody else.
It s outrageous and should be illegal, but instead, it s openly condoned by even the highest office in the state.
Chances are, North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory would approve.
Disgusting.Featured image via THV11