Tomi Lahren appeared on Real Time with Bill Maher on Friday night and got totally owned for spewing her racist bullshit.Bill Maher wondered if Trump would have been elected president had he been black instead of white.
What do you think if Trump was black, Maher asked his panel.
Maher described a scenario where Trump is black and has had three wives and brags about grabbing women by the p*ssy.
Would he still have been elected?Michael Eric Dyson s response was that black Trump would not even be running for president because he would be in prison.Indeed, black people end up in prison for doing a lot of the same shit white people usually get away with.
That s why black people make up a larger portion of the prison population.No black person would have been elected president by acting like Trump.Lahren responded that it wouldn t have bothered her at all if Trump were a black man, which we all know is a complete lie.
I don t think it would matter, she said, drawing shock and outrage from the audience because even they knew Lahren was lying.Maher asked Lahren about the fact that over 60 percent of Republicans believe that discrimination against white people is as bad as discrimination against black people.Lahren tried to side-step the question but Maher repeated it again.
Lahren then teeter-tottered in her answer, saying that there s an element of this that is true but appeared to admit that Republicans are wrong to make that claim.That s when Republican strategies Rick Wilson spoke up and absolutely nailed Lahren.
Since I m a conservative and not a Trump person, let me say this, Wilson said.
That s absurd.
That s f*cking crazy.
Here s the video via VidMe.Later on, Lahren blamed President Obama for the loss of coal mining jobs in this country.
As we all know, President Obama sought to reduce and prevent the effects of climate change by issuing rules stopping the coal industry from polluting, but Lahren had the gall to defend Republicans for recently repealing those rules.
So once again, the coal industry will be able to dump waste in waterways.Maher argued that these coal miners could be trained to do other kinds of jobs, such as renewable energy jobs that are safer for workers and better for the environment.
Lahren treated the coal miners like they are incapable of learning to do something new, as if they were all marked to be coal miners at birth.Once again, Rick Wilson shut her down.
There s a kind of hazy nostalgia with Trump s plan, We re going to have ironworks and shipyards and coal miners, Wilson said.
These are things we might as well get our buggy-whip industry back together again.
It s this retrospective, fake past that doesn t exist anymore.
And, God bless them, they work their asses off, and you know what, natural gas took their jobs, not Barack Obama.
Here s that video via VidMe.Tomi Lahren just could not hack it and it was obvious to everyone who watched the show.Featured image via screenshot