When people think of rape, they generally imagine some masked man grabbing a woman and dragging her into a dark alley or the woods and assaulting her.
However, it generally doesn t happen that way.
Most sexual assault occurs at the hands of someone the victim knows this is usually referred to as date rape, or acquaintance rape.
That is what makes these cases so difficult to prosecute.
That is also what makes things like the processing of rape kits and other physical evidence following an assault so vital.
However, one Idaho sheriff has gotten the idea in his head that most rapes are consensual sex, and thanks to that, he doesn t think his state needs laws making sure rape kits get processed.However, following rightful public outrage, Bingham County Sheriff Craig Rowland is backpeddling.
He took to the Sheriff Department s Facebook page to try to explain just why he made the outrageous and despicable assertion that most rapes are actually, to use his words, consensual sex.
Here is this neanderthal s Facebook apology : I want to explain what I was trying to say in the interview.
I misspoke when I said the majority of our rape cases are consensual sex.
The meaning behind my statement that has been misunderstood is that when a case is called into the dispatch center each and every one is thoroughly investigated.
A Deputy is sent to every one of these cases and that Deputy then in turn contacts the on-call detective to help with the investigation.
In some of these cases through the investigation it may be determined that the sex was consensual, but not always.
In these types of cases after the investigation is complete and it was determined that the sex was consensual.
I don t believe that those kits should be sent to the lab.
Then, as if that sorry excuse for an apology weren t enough, Rowland then went on to go down the old I m sorry if you were offended road, and then proceeded to paint HIMSELF as a victim here, talking about cyber-bullying : I know that it is hard for victims to come forward on sexual assault cases.
I spoke to a rape victim today and told her that I knew it was hard for her to come forward.
I want to apologize to anyone who I might have offended with my statement as my main responsibility is to the public s safety and well being and maintaining their trust., he wrote.
I can also say with regret that I now know what it is like to be cyber bullied.
Not only have I been threatened but so has my family.
I hope that this will clear things up a bit.
Sure, it clears things up, Sheriff Rowland, but not in the way you think.
What you ve said here is no different from what you said before.
You re victim-blaming.
Nine times out of ten, if a woman says she was raped, she was.
You say yourself that it s hard for victims to disclose.
So, why the hell would anyone make something like that up?
It s men like you, Sheriff Rowland, who keep rape culture alive and well.You have no business in law enforcement, and I sincerely feel for the rape victims for whom you are their only source of so-called help.
Featured image via video screen capture