Now, some may say because Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) was born to an American citizen, even while in Canada, he is to be considered a natural born citizen.
However, when looking at the Constitution in the context of the time frame that is was written, and in regards to how certain laws were to be read, that natural born status actually may not apply to the senator.Why?
Because, unlike today, in 2016, when woman are considered equals among men (for the most part), when the Constitution was written by our Founders it was quite a sexist time.Legal scholar Thomas Lee from Fordham University believes that Cruz should be disqualified.
And as the Washington Post describes: On this straightforward, intuitive, and deeply conservative reasoning, several prominent legal scholars have argued Cruz is arguably not a natural-born citizen.
As the Founding Fathers and their contemporaries probably would have understood that phrase, the argument goes, Cruz is ineligible for the presidency not because he was born in Canada, but because he was born in Canada to a Cuban father.
Furthermore: Under King Edward III, who reigned from 1327 to 1377, England expanded this definition to include the children of ambassadors and soldiers who were serving the monarch overseas.
In the centuries to come, Parliament modified the definition further to include the children of private English subjects who happened to be abroad.In the late 18th century, though, that definition did not include English mothers who were traveling.
If they conceived children with foreign men, it was assumed those children would not be loyal English subjects and were not considered natural born.
Yikes!
Looks like Cruz isn t a natural born citizen after all.
Well, at least if we go by the United States Constitution as it was originally written and intended.
Which, strict constitutional conservatives like a certain Sen. Ted Cruz claim so adamantly to be.
He might as well excuse himself from the presidential race right now.
Unless, of course, he s not a strict constitutionalist and doesn t want to abide by the Founding Fathers original intent.HOW.
DARE.
HE?
!Truth be told, we really don t know the Founding Fathers true intention, and can only go by how natural born was defined in the era that the phrase was first prescribed.
Everything else is hearsay and interpreted to fit specific agendas (such as, wanting to allow a Canadian born to a Cuban dissident to be President of the United States).
Sure, his mother was an American citizen, but if we are to abide by the law as originally intended, this surely may disqualify Cruz.
All because the Founding Fathers were harshly sexist.How much do you want to bet Ted Cruz wishes he was a women s rights activist now?
Oops.Featured image: Gage Skidmore (Flickr)