Trump s first few days in the White House have been tumultuous, and not just because he s so upset about his inauguration numbers being less-than record-setting that he had his press secretary flat-out lie about them.
His aides have revealed that his thin skin is making things difficult, and because of that, presidential historian Douglas Brinkley has weighed in with something rather embarrassing for a man obsessed with numbers and image: [H]e can never let go and stop watching cable TV.
Now he s off to the worst start of a presidency in a very long time.
[emphasis mine]The worst.
In a very long time.
Those are words Trump won t want to hear, seeing as how he thinks he is the best and has the best of absolutely everything.
An expert calling him the worst at anything just burns.Brinkley believes Trump had a successful inauguration despite his numbers being lower than expected, and he should have built on that.
However, given that he s so quick to anger when someone anyone makes him look bad to the world, he fixates on that instead of real issues and real work, and it s causing huge problems.
Sources within the White House revealed that his aides have to control what information he s exposed to: One person who frequently talks to Trump said aides have to push back privately against his worst impulses in the White House, like the news conference idea, and have to control information that may infuriate him.
He gets bored and likes to watch TV, this person said, so it is important to minimize that.
Really?
We have someone in our nation s highest office who gets bored easily and so he watches TV to, what, look for reports about how great he is?
And then TV doesn t deliver, which pisses him off, and he goes off on tangents and people get frustrated.
Even members of the GOP are floored by his behavior, like the news conference about his inaugural audience: It s surreal.
We finally have the White House, and it s this.
Yes, it s quite surreal that we have a narcissistic toddler in the White House.The Washington Post s Ashley Parker, Philip Rucker and Matea Gold said that, when he came back from his final inaugural event on Saturday, he turned on the TV, saw the Women s Marches, saw them protesting his presidency, and worst of all, saw that the protesting crowds appeared bigger than his own audience.
So he got increasingly pissed off, and, seemingly on a whim, had Spicer give that press conference that was one lie after another, and culminated in Kellyanne Conway s alternate facts bullshit.And then Trump was unhappy with Spicer s visuals meaning he didn t like how Spicer appeared nervous, flubbed some of his words, wore a badly-fitting suit, and was apparently not forceful enough with the lying press.
Besides that, there are all the power struggles plaguing Trump s administration that are very reminiscent of the power struggles that plagued his campaign.
Some are upset with his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, trying to shove anyone he sees as a threat to his position as a close adviser aside.
Aides are unhappy that Kellyanne Conway can do what she wants, when she wants, because she s outside the official communications department.
And the list goes on.The word worst is not in Trump s vocabulary when he s talking about himself.
Brinkley, however, knows what s what and is apparently not afraid to say it.Featured image by Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images