Right-wing Christians are always talking about how LGBT people having equal protections under the law will mean the end of Christianity.
Well, the Supreme Court s ruling Obegefell v. Hodges, which made marriage equality legal nationwide was the worst fears of bigots everywhere becoming a reality but not because of any actual anti Christian elements to the ruling.
The ruling simply says that anyone and everyone can marry whatever consenting adult they like.
However, many bigoted Christians see the ability of anyone to do anything they don t like is persecution.
On that list of morons who think that way is religious conservative and presidential candidate Ted Cruz.Cruz sat down to speak with right-wing radio host Janet Mefford on Thursday, and of course the conversation turned to his bigoted views on LGBT people.
First, he bragged about being endorsed by hate groups such as the Family Research Council and The National Organization for marriage.
Then, he went on along rant about how marriage equality was illegitimate, and how the Obergefell ruling was nothing short of disastrous Here is the quote (emphasis mine): I believe that decision was fundamentally illegitimate, it was lawless, it was unconstitutional and it will not stand.
And I would note, that is precisely why Dr. James Dobson has endorsed me in this campaign, it is why Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council has endorsed me in this campaign, it s why the National Organization on Marriage [sic] has endorsed me on this campaign and has said it cannot support Donald Trump or Marco Rubio because if we re not willing to defend marriage, we are giving up the foundational building blocks of the family, we re giving up the Judeo-Christian values that built this great nation.
And that is where you are dead wrong, Senator Cruz.
This nation was not built upon Christianity.
In fact, our Founding Fathers put explicit walls into our founding documents to ensure a complete separation between church and state.
If you do not know that basic fact of our history and of our laws, then you have no business being in any public office, much less the presidency.This is what makes Cruz so dangerous.
He is determined to turn America in a giant church via the law should he make it to the White House.
That is why it is so important to make sure you VOTE BLUE in November 2016.Listen to the audio below, via Right Wing Watch:[soundcloud url= https://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/247707760 params= color=ff5500 width= 100% height= 166 iframe= true /]Featured image from Gage Skidmore/Flickr